--- Section 1 ---
--- Chapters 833(170) to 860(197) ---
1 Shikhandi also belongs to the lineage of the Panchalas.
2 The word used is tata. This means son, but is affectionately used towards anyone who is younger or junior.
3 Ceremony where a lady chooses her own husband from assembled suitors.
4 However, viryashulka is not the same as a svayamvara. Svayamvara is a ceremony where the maiden herself (svayam) chooses her husband (vara) from assembled suitors. Viryashulka is when the maiden is offered to the suitor who shows the most valour (virya), shulka meaning price.
5 Dasha is a slave or a servant and is a term used for shudras. However, dasha is also used for ﬁshermen and Satya- vati was the daughter of a ﬁsherman.
6 Because she was dark, Satyavati was also known as Kali.
7 Varana means elephant and Varanasahrya is another name for Hastinapura.
8 The aranyakas are speciﬁc sacred texts, composed in the forest (aranya) and meant to be studied there.
9 Meaning Bhishma.
10 Hotravahana was Amba’s maternal grandfather.
11 Parashurama.
12 If Bhishma does not listen to Parashurama that he should take Amba back.
13 Sages.
14 Gandharvas are celestial musicians and semi-divine.
15 Apsaras are celestial dancers who serve Indra, sometimes regarded as wives of gandharvas.
16 Though not explicitly stated, this is clearly Bhishma speaking again.
17 Akritavrana.
18 There is a minor inconsistency, since Akritavrana is being addressed. However, Bhishma is repeating the con- versation to Duryodhana.
19 Another name for Hastinapura, gaja meaning elephant.
20 A respectful offering made to guests, consisting of honey and curd.
21 Bhisma. Jahnavi is another name for Ganga.
22 As a woman.
23 Indra.
24 The supreme soul, brahman or paramatman.
25 They are so powerful that they pass through the bodies.
26 The inferior dharma of remaining with Bhishma against her wishes and the superior dharma of going to Shalva.
27 Parashurama’s tone was conciliatory.
28 The ﬁve types of weapons are mukta (those that are released from the hand, like a chakra), amukta (those that are never released, like a sword), muktamukta (those that can be released or not released, like a spear), yantra- mukta (those that are released from an implement, like an arrow) and mantramukta (magical weapons unleashed with incantations). When four types of weapons are mentioned, the mantramukta category is excluded.
29 Parashurama was the son of Jamadagni. Jamadagni was killed by King Kartavirya Arjuna. In consequence, Parashurama exterminated kshatriyas from the earth twenty-one times. This blood created a lake in Kurukshetra and Parashurama offered oblations to his father there.
30 Ganga.
31 Siddhi means accomplishment. Siddhas are semi-divine species who have attained these superhuman accom- plishments or faculties.
32 Celestial singers.
33 Ganga was brought down from heaven by Bhagiratha and is called Bhagiratha’s daughter, Bhagirathi.
34 Hastinapura.
35 Shiva.
36 There is a conversation within a conversation, because Sanjaya is recounting the story to Dhritarashtra.
37 The mother of the Vedas is a reference to the metres Gayatri, Savitri and Sarasvati.
38 That is, thrice the distance an arrow can travel.
39 A speciﬁc type of arrow named bhalla, with a broad head.
40 Tree with red blossoms.
41 The sun.
42 Divine weapon named after Vayu, the wind god.
43 Divine weapon named after guhyakas, semi-divine species who were companions of Kubera.
44 Divine weapon named after Agni, the ﬁre god.
45 Divine weapon named after Varuna, the god of the ocean.
46 Goruta is a measure of distance equal to two kroshas. It is so named because it is the distance from which a cow’s (go) bellow can be heard.
47 They did not fall down on the ground.
48 Prayuta (million), arbuda (one hundred million), ayuta (ten thousand), kharva (ten trillion, or a very large num- ber) and nikharva (billion).
49 The text says arrows, though Parashurama actually hurled twelve spears.
50 Kartavirya Arjuna was the king of Haihaya.
51 The word used is vishikha, a special type of arrow. Vishikhas were minute arrows, without feathered tufts.
52 Arshtishena is a sage (rajarshi) whom the Pandavas visited, such as in Section 35 (Volume 3). While he could have also arrived to witness the battle, there is no obvious reason for Arshtishena to be mentioned here. Though the Mahabharata never makes it clear, Arshtishena could have been Shantanu’s elder brother, Devapi, who re- sorted to the forest. But there is no connection between Arshtishena and Parashurama. Some non-critical edi- tions do not mention Arshtishena, but ancestors. It does make sense for Bhishma to show obeisance to his ancestors.
53 Thousands of gifts and stipends.
54 Rahu.
55 Vishvakarma is the architect of the gods. Prajapatya can be interpreted as another name for the weapon, or as a weapon that is associated with (or used) by Prajapati (Brahma). Prasvapan means something that puts one to sleep.
56 Sambodhana means calling or addressing. In this context, it thus means a weapon that awakens someone by call- ing him up.
57 When it is summoned mentally.
58 Suggesting that it was large.
59 There is destruction at the end of an era, with an all-encompassing ﬁre. The weapon is being compared to some- thing at the time of destruction, such as the ﬁre.
60 Divine weapon named after Brahma.
61 Because Bhishma had voluntarily withdrawn the weapon and in a way, Parashurama had been defeated.
62 Ourva’s son was Richika, Richika’s son was Jamadagni and Jamadagni’s son was Parashurama. So Ourva, Richika and Jamadagni had arrived. They were descended from Bhrigu. Bhrigu’s son was Chyavana and Chya- vana’s son was Ourva.
63 When Jamadagni was killed by Kartavirya Arjuna.
64 Nara and Narayana are ancient rishis, Nara is identiﬁed with Arjuna and Narayana with Krishna.
65 Brahma.
66 The word used is tata.
67 The word used is tata.
68 This has been translated as the name of a hermitage. But it could also be a reference to the Vatsa kingdom, locat- ed at the conﬂuence of the Ganga and the Yamuna.
69 Meaning Parashurama and the lake in Kurukshetra.
70 Because she became a river.
71 There is an Amba River in Maharashtra, but that doesn’t ﬁt.
72 The word used is tata.
73 Obtained through austerities.
74 Probably signifying that the mind is calm and is not agitated or angry.
75 Shiva has a bull on his banner.
76 Mahadeva, Kapardi and Vrishadhvaja are Shiva’s names. Mahadeva means the great god. Kapardi means the one with matted hair and Vrishadhvaja means the one with the bull on his banner.
77 This doesn’t make sense. There was no enmity between Drupada and Bhishma. However, the plural ‘our’ is used in the text, not ‘mine’. So this could be a reference to Drona and Drupada’s enmity with Drona. However, Drupada had already obtained Dhrishtadyumna to ensure Drona’s death.
78 Parshata is Drupada’s name.
79 Meaning Shiva.
80 Shiva.
81 The text doesn’t actually mention the name. It has been inserted here for the sake of clarity.
82 Literally, fair in complexion.
83 Shiva’s.
84 The capital of Panchala. Later known as Kampilgarh and Koil. Now known as Aligarh.
85 Shikhandi.
86 To Hiranyavarma.
87 Both hiranya and kanchana mean gold or golden. Hiranyavarma and Kanchanavarma are synonyms.
88 Hiranyavarma.
89 Hiranyavarma.
90 The word means the son of a shudra mother and a kshatriya father. It is applied for a steward or charioteer.
91 This part of the conversation was happening in public.
92 Yakshas are semi-divine species and companions of Kubera, the god of treasure.
93 Demi-gods similar to the yakshas, companions of Kubera.
94 Kubera.
95 The text uses the word Hemakavacha, translated as golden (hema) armour (kavacha). This has the same mean- ing as Hiranyavarma, so Hemakavacha can also be interpreted as a proper name.
96 Hemavarma has the same meaning as Hiranyavarma.
97 To Drupada.
98 Arghya.
99 Back to the marital state.
100 Kubera is described as Naravahana, because he has a man (nara) as his mount or vehicle (vahana).
101 Kubera was in the air, in his celestial vehicle or vimana.
102 The son of Vishrava, Kubera.
103 The word used is tata.
104 Kubera. Kubera was the son of Vishrava and Vishrava was the son of Pulastya.
105 The word used is tata.
106 A ratha is a great warrior.
107 The word used is tata.
108 Lokapalas. The guardians (pala) of the worlds (loka) are eight in number—Indra, Vahni (Agni), Yama, Nairri- ta, Varuna, Maruta, Kubera and Isha (Ishana). Sometimes, Vayu is listed instead of Indra.
109 Ashvatthama.
110 Illusion.
111 Bhishma, the son of a river.
112 Yudhishthira.
113 Kripa.
114 Shiva disguised as a hunter. This has been described in Section 31.
115 Literally, Vedanta means the end of the Vedas and is identiﬁed with the philosophy of the Upanishads.
116 Satyaki.
117 Since Kuru was a common ancestor, the Pandavas can also be referred to as Kouravas.
118 After death.
119 Drona.
120 This can also be translated as towards the back of Kurukshetra.
121 A yojana is a measure of distance and is between eight and nine miles.
122 Two separate words are used in the text for courtesans, ganika and vara. These are synonyms. Some non-criti- cal versions read chara (spy) instead of vara. Chara should probably be right. SECTION SIXTY-ONE: JAMBUKHANDA-VINIRMANA PARVA

--- Section 2 ---
--- Chapters 861(1) to 871(11) ---
1 Samantapanchaka is another name for Kurukshetra, usually explained because of the ﬁve (pancha) lakes created by Parashurama. Alternatively, it is said that the land was ﬁve yojanas in every direction.
2 The earth is divided into different continents (dvipa). The number varies, but is usually stated to be seven. The central one is Jambudvipa, named after jambu, the jamun tree. Bharatavarsha is in the centre of Jambudvipa.
3 That is, there were passwords and other signs that the Pandava army would use with each other.
4 Yudhishthira.
5 Panchajanya is Krishna’s conch shell and Devadatta is Arjuna’s.
6 Meaning both Yudhishthira and Duryodhana.
7 The word used in the text is dhurya. This means one who carries a burden and can be a beast or a man.
8 The Critical edition may have got this wrong. It uses the word sandhya, which means both morning and dusk. Some non-critical versions use the word sainya. In that case, Vyasa would have seen the soldiers extending to the front and the rear (instead of morning and dusk) and that ﬁts better.
9 Dhritarashtra was Vichitravirya’s son because his mother was Vichitravirya’s wife. But Dhritarashtra was actually Vyasa’s son. In that sense, Vyasa was a grandfather.
10 In earlier sections, such as Section 60, there is a suggestion that Sanjaya knew what was going on, without being actually present. However, the boon of being able to see from afar, is bestowed here.
11 The text uses the word prapitamaha, though Vyasa is actually the paternal grandfather.
12 The text does not explicitly state that this is Vyasadeva speaking. It is left implicit. Hence, we have inserted these quotation marks.
13 ‘Khatakhata’ is a crackling sound. When meteors fall down, signifying a calamity, they make this sound. The south is the direction of death.
14 That is, clouds in this shape. The headless torso can be an allusion to Rahu.
15 Arundhati is the rishi Vasishtha’s devoted wife. However, Vasishtha and Arundhati are also stars in Ursa Majoris or saptarshi, the constellation of the Great Bear. As a star, Vasishtha is prominent, while Arundhati is faint. As a sign of abnormal times, Arundhati is shining more than Vasishtha.
16 Shanaishchara or Shani is the planet Saturn. Rohini is the fourth of the twenty-seven nakshatras.
17 Sharika, the bird Turdus Salica.
18 Padma (a lotus in general), utpala (a blue lotus) and kumuda (a lotus that grows in the night or a water lily) respectively.
19 Rahu is a demon. At the time of the churning of the ocean, he disguised himself as a god and began to drink am- rita. This was noticed by the sun and the moon and they reported this to Vishnu, who sliced off Rahu’s head with his chakra. Rahu is a head without a body. Seeking revenge against the sun and the moon, he swallows them at the time of an eclipse.
20 The white planet is Shukra. Chitra is the fourteenth nakshatra, Spica. Shukra has passed beyond Chitra, towards the ﬁfteenth nakshatra, Svati (Arcturus), whose lord is Rahu. The white planet might also be Ketu.
21 Pushya is the eighth nakshatra.
22 Angaraka is Mars, while Magha is the tenth nakshatra. Brihaspati is Jupiter, while Shravana is the twenty-sec- ond nakshatra.
23 The son of the sun is Shani and Bhaga is the presiding deity for the eleventh nakshatra, Purva Phalguni. Howev- er, we have earlier been told that Saturn is in Rohini. There is a contradiction in the positions of the planets across these two chapters.
24 Shukra is Venus and Purva Proshthapada is the same as Purva Bhadrapada, the twenty-ﬁfth nakshatra. Uttara means Uttara Bhadrapada, the twenty-sixth nakshatra.
25 The dark planet is Saturn, Jyeshtha is the eighteenth nakshatra and its presiding deity is Indra. However, we have earlier been told that Saturn is in Rohini.
26 Dhruva is the pole star.
27 The harsh planet is probably Rahu.
28 Because of the energy of the brahman and Shravana, this seems to be Jupiter.
29 Even if it is the wrong season for that kind of grain.
30 Saptarshi means the seven (sapta) great sages (rishi). But here, it means the constellation Ursa Majoris (Great Bear).
31 Vishakha is the sixteenth nakshatra.
32 The identiﬁcation of the terrible planet is not clear, but it could be Ketu, Rahu’s headless torso. Krittika is the Pleiades, the third of the twenty-seven nakshatras. The reference to Krittika as the ﬁrst might also mean that the ordering of the nakshatras used to be different earlier.
33 There are different ways of classifying the twenty-seven nakshatras. The three-fold classiﬁcation can be a refer- ence to their categorization as upward looking, downward looking and ones that look straight or sideways. Al- ternatively, kings are divided into three categories, those who own elephants, those who own horses and those who own men. The nine nakshatras that begin with Ashvini signify danger to kings who own horses, if evil planets inﬂuence them. The nine nakshatras that begin with Magha have the same implication for kings who own elephants and the nine nakshatras that begin with Mula have that implication for kings who own men.
34 Budha is Mercury.
35 That is, without rain.
36 This doesn’t mean anything. It is just the sound being uttered by the birds.
37 The sacriﬁcial ﬁre.
38 It is not clear what this refers to. Nor is the meaning clear. If it refers to crows, crows at the back of an army are auspicious, while those in front of the army are inauspicious.
39 Elephants, horses, chariots and infantry.
40 Among the enemy.
41 The assumption is that there is going to be a ﬁght between Garuda and the birds.
42 Literally, the forest of the Kurus. Another name for Kurukshetra.
43 Like insects.
44 Animals.
45 That is, they are domestic.
46 Trees are vriksha. Shrubs are gulma, they grow from a clump. Creepers are lata, they require a support. Plants are valli, these are also creepers of a sort, but they creep along the earth (like pumpkins). These plants only sur- vive for a year. Grass is trina.
47 Fourteen mobile and ﬁve immobile.
48 The ﬁve constituents of matter—kshiti or prithivi or bhumi (earth), apa (water), tejas or agni (ﬁre or energy), marut or vayu (wind or air) and vyoma or akasha (the sky or ether). These are known as bhutas and pancha (ﬁve) bhuta collectively.
49 Gayatri has several nuances. It is a mantra in the Vedas and is described as the mother of the Vedas. It is equated with the brahman or paramatman. In personiﬁed form, Gayatri is a goddess and Brahma’s consort. She is equat- ed with Brahma and is the source of all creation.
50 Bhumi possesses all the ﬁve qualities.
51 Before creation. This is a reference to the ﬁve constituents of matter, not the qualities.
52 At the time of destruction, earth merges into water, water merges into ﬁre, ﬁre merges into air and air merges into ether. At the time of creation, air is created from ether, ﬁre is created from air, water is created from ﬁre and the earth is created from water.
53 Brahma.
54 The bhutas, constituents of matter or elements.
55 These shlokas about Sudarshana are difﬁcult to understand. Perhaps some allegory is intended and the text is not meant to be taken literally.
56 Sacred ﬁg tree, kind of banyan. Also known as plaksha and pipal.
57 These words are spoken by Sanjaya.
58 Malyavan and Gandhamadana.
59 Meru extends both above the earth and inside the earth.
60 Garuda’s.
61 Meru.
62 The wind or the wind god.
63 Tumburu, Vishvavasu, Haha and Huhu are the names of gandharvas.
64 Shukracharya, the preceptor of the demons.
65 Shiva. Shiva’s consort is Uma.
66 Karnikara is also the name of a ﬂower. It is colourful, but has no fragrance.
67 Ganga ﬂows in the sky, the earth and the nether world. She is called Mandakini in the sky, Ganga on earth and Bhogavati in the nether world.
68 Jambukhanda or Jambudvipa is at the centre of the seven dvipas (islands), which are spread out in a concentric circle. Meru is at the centre of Jambukhanda. Jambukhanda is named after the jamun (the Indian blackberry). Bharatavarsha is in Jambukhanda.
69 The name of Indra’s pleasure garden.
70 Varsha is a continent and usually nine such continents are mentioned— Kuru, Hiranmaya, Ramyaka, Ilavrita, Hari, Ketumala, Bhadrashva, Kinnara and Bharata. Hiranyaka is the same as Hiranmaya and Airavata is the same as Ilavrita. Shveta and Nila are the names of mountains.
71 The name of a mountain.
72 Probably referring to Hiranyaka, Ramyaka, Ilavrita, Hari and Ketumala.
73 Vishrava’s son, Kubera.
74 There is a typo in the Critical edition’s text here. It should read parshva (side) instead of Partha.
75 A lake.
76 Indra.
77 Literally the lord of all beings, Shiva.
78 Shiva.
79 Ganga.
80 Nadi means river.
81 Probably meaning Shiva.
82 Sarpas are snakes, nagas are serpents. Unlike sarpas, nagas have semi-divine qualities. They can assume any form at will and dwell in a separate nether world.
83 Of the hare.
84 Sweet, sour, salty, pungent, bitter and acidic.
85 As bark.
86 The ruddy goose.
87 Either the kadamba or the devadaru (deodar) tree.
88 The word used is maharajata, which also means turmeric.
89 These are the valakhilya sages, usually stated to be sixty thousand in number. They are as long as a thumb and were created from Brahma’s body. They precede the sun’s chariot.
90 The same as Ramyaka.
91 The same as Hiranmaya.
92 Shandili was a female ascetic who lived on Mount Rishabha. The story of Garuda’s encounter with her has been described in Section 54 (Volume 4).
93 The same as Ilavrita. This varsha is supreme because Mount Shringavan is there.
94 The sky.
95 Nara and Narayana are both manifestations of Vishnu. Vaikuntha means immeasurable and is the name of Vish- nu’s abode, as well as Vishnu’s name.
96 Though written as Bharata, the country is actually Bhaarata and is named after Bharata.
97 Each manvantara (era) is presided over by a sovereign known as Manu. It is because humans are descended from Manu that they are known as manava. There are fourteen manvantaras and fourteen Manus to preside over them. The present manvantara is the seventh and the Manu who presides over this is known as Vaivasvata, be- cause he was born from the sun (Vivasvat).
98 Vainya means Vena’s son. King Prithu was a virtuous king who was Vena’s son. Prithivi or prithvi, the earth, is named after Prithu.
99 The founder of the solar dynasty.
100 The son of Nahusha. Both the Pandavas and the Yadavas are descended from Yayati. Yayati’s story has been recounted in Section 7 (Volume 1).
101 King of the solar dynasty, the son of Nabhaga.
102 King of the solar dynasty, the son of Yuvanashva. Mandhata’s story has been recounted in Section 33 (Volume 3).
103 King of the lunar dynasty. Nahusha’s story has been recounted in Section 49 (Volume 4).
104 Mandhata’s son.
105 Oushinara means the son of Ushinara. Shibi was the son of King Ushinara of the lunar dynasty and was famous for his generosity.
106 King mentioned in the Bhagavata Purana as the father of Bharata.
107 Aila means the son of Ila. Ila was the daughter of Vaivasvata Manu and gave birth to Pururava. Aila means Pururava.
108 King Nriga inadvertently donated the same cow to two brahmanas. He was cursed and became a lizard that lived in a well. Krishna rescued him from this curse.
109 That is, in Bharatavarsha.
110 Barbarians, those who do not speak Sanskrit.
111 There is a Bahuda river in Andhra Pradesh.
112 Sutlej.
113 Chenab.
114 Identiﬁed with the Chautang River in Haryana. Drishadvati means a river with many stones in it.
115 Beas.
116 Betwa River in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.
117 Krishnavena is the river Krishna and the tributary Venna.
118 Ravi.
119 Jhelum.
120 Probably the Tapti.
121 In Udhampur district of Jammu and Kashmir.
122 The Koshi river.
123 Trideva is mentioned twice.
124 In Uttar Pradesh.
125 Chambal.
126 Vetravati is mentioned twice.
127 Payoshni is mentioned twice.
128 Sindhu is mentioned twice.
129 Originates in Maharashtra, tributary of the Krishna.
130 This could mean the Apaga river in Haryana.
131 Another name for Chandrabhaga, so this has already been mentioned.
132 Hiranvati is mentioned twice.
133 Chitrasena is mentioned twice.
134 Venna has already been mentioned, in conjunction with Krishna.
135 This has already been mentioned, though the earlier mention said Krishnavena.
136 Koushiki is mentioned twice.
137 The Shon River.
138 Bahuda has already been mentioned.
139 Tributary of the Padma.
140 The river Tons, tributary of the Ganga that ﬂows through Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.
141 Varuna and Asi Rivers in Varanasi.
142 Tributary of the Alakananda.
143 In Orissa.
144 Tributary of the Brahmaputra.
145 In Rajshahi division in Bangladesh.
146 This doesn’t sound right and there may be a typo in the Critical edition. As in some non-critical versions, it should read phala, not bala. In that case, the rivers produce great merit.
147 Kashi has already been mentioned.
148 We haven’t followed the Critical edition here, which uses the word kevala. Kerala ﬁts better.
149 Kashi has already been mentioned.
150 Videha has already been mentioned.
151 In our translation, we have already mentioned Kerala.
152 Hunters.
153 Dharma, artha and kama.
154 Sama, dana, bheda and danda respectively.
155 Kali.
156 Chakravarti.
157 The rest of it has already passed.
158 That is, Harivarsha is superior to Bharatavarsha. SECTION SIXTY-TWO: BHUMI PARVA

--- Section 3 ---
--- Chapters 872(12) to 873(13) ---
1 The word planet is in the singular. So Sanjaya will only tell Dhritarashtra about Rahu.
2 The ocean.
3 Shakadvipa.
4 The people who live there.
5 The grandfather is Brahma. Revati is the twenty-seventh nakshatra.
6 Shyama means dark.
7 Kesara means saffron, which is why the mountain is so named.
8 Each mountain.
9 There is a varsha corresponding to each of the seven mountains. Raivata is the same as Raivataka. Malaya is be- ing referred to as Jalada, jalada meaning something that provides water, such as a cloud. The clouds strike against mountains and provide water.
10 The name of another mountain.
11 Shiva.
12 Of the brahmanas.
13 Ghrita.
14 Dadhi.
15 Sura.
16 Gharma. Alternatively, where the waters are heated.
17 The silk-cotton tree.
18 Andhakara is the same as Andhakaraka.
19 Progressively, the distance between the second and the third is double that between the ﬁrst and the second and so on.
20 Vamana is the same as Vamanaka.
21 Pravara is the same as Pravaraka.
22 Usually the stage of celibacy, when one is studying. However, brahmacharya also means worship of the brah- man or following the path of the brahman.
23 It is left implicit that this occurs as one progressively moves northwards, from one varsha to the next.
24 The word used is shiva, which means the benign one who ensures bliss.
25 There are four elephants that dwell in the four directions. These are known as diggaja, the elephant (gaja) for a direction (dik).
26 The temples and mouth are rent because of rutting when an elephant is in musth. The name of the fourth ele- phant is not mentioned. Sometimes, eight or ten elephants are said to dwell in the respective eight or ten directions.
27 The ﬁrst subject, the geography. However, Dhritarashtra had also asked about Rahu and about the sun and the moon.
28 Another name for Rahu.
29 This gives a value of Pi of 3.5.
30 This gives a value of Pi of 3.45.
31 In the sacred texts.
32 The connection between a geographical description and Duryodhana’s paciﬁcation is not obvious. SECTION SIXTY-THREE: BHAGAVAD GITA PARVA

--- Section 4 ---
--- Chapters 874(14) to 900(40) ---
1 Sanjaya need not of course have gone to the ﬁeld of battle. He could see what was happening without being phys- ically present. The Critical edition has the word madhyamam as a description of Bhishma. This means an inter- mediate one, someone in the middle. Bhishma was an intermediate one between the earlier generation of the Bharatas and the newer one. However, this sounds contrived. Since non-critical versions have the standard word pitamaham (grandfather), the Critical version may have erred.
2 These incidents have been recounted in Section 60.
3 The word father is being used in a loose sense.
4 Shikhandi.
5 Indra.
6 That is, Bhishma’s father Shantanu. Bhishma adopted a life of celibacy so that Shantanu could marry Satyavati.
7 Referring to Duryodhana and his brothers.
8 Guarding him.
9 Duryodhana.
10 Bharadvaja’s son is Drona. However, Drona has already been mentioned. Hence, if the word son is interpreted with some latitude, this could also mean Ashvatthama.
11 An atiratha is a supreme warrior. The classiﬁcation of rathas, maharathas and atirathas has been given in Section 59 (Volume 4).
12 Parashurama.
13 Makara, mythical aquatic creature, translated here as shark.
14 The way the shore drives back the ocean.
15 Referring to Bhishma’s death.
16 Referring to the army of the Pandavas.
17 There are six Vedangas— shiksha (articulation and pronunciation), chhanda (prosody), vyakarana (grammar), nirukta (etymology), jyotisha (astronomy) and kalpa (rituals).
18 The story has been told in Section 60.
19 Parashurama belonged to the Bhargava lineage.
20 Bhishma.
21 The word used is tata.
22 Bhishma’s name.
23 Bhishma.
24 Krishna Dvaipayana Vedavyasa was Dhritrashtra’s biological father and was the son of the sage Parashara.
25 Arjuna’s.
26 Both rishti and khadga are types of swords and both are mentioned. Hence, we have translated rishti as scimitar.
27 An akshouhini is a large army and consists of 21,870 chariots, 21,870 elephants, 65,610 horses and 109,350 sol- diers on foot.
28 The Critical edition has got this wrong. The text says munjamalina, garlanded with munja grass. This does not ﬁt. Some other versions say yuddhashalina, skilled in war. That ﬁts much better.
29 After death.
30 This may mean either the sun or the moon. However, Bhishma has already been compared to a moon, though sharp rays typically signify the sun, not the moon.
31 Of the Pandavas.
32 Makara.
33 The tenth of the twenty-seven nakshatras. There is a problem of inconsistency, since other places don’t say that the moon was in Magha on that day. A somewhat more complicated interpretation is also possible. The ances- tors are the deity associated with Magha. After death, one goes to the world of the ancestors and spends some time there, before proceeding elsewhere. In the complicated interpretation, this shloka means that the moon ap- proached the world of the ancestors. Consequently, if one died in the battle, one would not have to spend time in the world of the ancestors, but would proceed to heaven immediately, after traversing the world of the moon.
34 Excluding Rahu and Ketu.
35 The text says brahman.
36 Govasana was his name. He was known as Shaibya because he was the king of the Shibis.
37 Duryodhana.
38 Since Karna (the lord of Anga) had refused to ﬁght, this mean’s Karna’s son Vrishaketu.
39 In all such instances, what is meant is that the individual concerned placed himself at the head of the division of the army he was commanding, not at the head of the overall army.
40 Yantras or machines.
41 Ankusha, for driving the elephant.
42 Ashvatthama.
43 A vyuha is an arrangement of troops in battle formation and there were different types of vyuhas.
44 The standards.
45 The Malavas being counted as one.
46 The word used is tata.
47 In the shape of the mouth (mukha) of a needle (suchi).
48 Virata.
49 Shikhandi.
50 Satyaki.
51 Drupada.
52 Because of the musth.
53 An ordinary club is gada, parigha is an iron club. Bhima’s gada is being compared to a parigha, which is stronger than an ordinary club.
54 Indra’s vajra was symmetrical on all sides.
55 Vajra also means thunder. Hence the image of lightning.
56 Of the Kouravas.
57 Belonging to the Pandavas.
58 Punjab.
59 Kripa, also known as Goutama.
60 Hunters.
61 Greeks.
62 These warriors took an oath that they would not retreat alive from the ﬁeld of battle.
63 Because it was smaller.
64 Without weakness or lassitude. Vaikuntha is both the name of Vishnu’s abode and a name for Vishnu. Here, it is being used in the latter sense.
65 Before Krishna appeared, the gods had been vanquished by the demons.
66 Satyaki.
67 Arjuna.
68 Bhima.
69 Arjuna.
70 As an auspicious sign.
71 Dronacharya.
72 Drupada’s son was Dhrishtadyumna and he was also Dronacharya’s student.
73 Another name for Satyaki.
74 The son of Shishupala, from Chedi.
75 Of the Yadava clan.
76 Of the Panchala clan.
77 King Drupada’s son.
78 Abhimanyu.
79 One of the Kourava brothers.
80 Bhurishrava.
81 Shastra is a weapon and so is a praharana. These words can be used synonymously. But etymologically, there is a difference between the two. Shastra is something that is used to kill. Praharana is something that is used to beat someone up. And astra is something that is thrown. The text uses both shastra and praharana.
82 This is the obvious meaning. Paryapta means that which can be measured and is therefore limited. Aparyapta is that which is unlimited, such as the Kourava army is. This is the straightforward interpretation, the Kourava army being larger than the Pandava one by a considerable magnitude. There were eleven akshouhinis on the Kourava side and seven on the Pandava side. However, a more convoluted interpretation is also possible, since paryapta also means adequate. Thus, the Kourava army is inadequate, but the Pandava army is adequate.
83 His means Duryodhana’s. Duryodhana’s statement having ended, we are back with Sanjaya.
84 Krishna.
85 Arjuna.
86 Krishna. Hrishikesha means lord of the senses.
87 Arjuna.
88 Bhima. Vrikodara means someone with the belly of a wolf.
89 Arjuna.
90 Krishna. Achyuta can be translated as someone who is ﬁrm and has not fallen.
91 Another name for Arjuna. Gudakesha means someone who has conquered sleep.
92 Sakha has been translated by us as a friend and suhrida as a well-wisher. All these terms can be translated as friend, but in the Sanskrit, there are differences of nuance. A mitra is someone with whom one works together. A sakha is a kindred soul. A bandhu is someone from whom one cannot bear to be separated, a relative. A suhri- da is someone who is always devoted and a bandhava is someone who accompanies you to palaces and crema- tion grounds, a kin.
93 Kripa has been translated as pity. Daya is also pity. But there is a difference between the two and this will be ex- plained in the next chapter.
94 According to the sacred texts, there are six types of assassins (atatayi)— arsonists, poisoners, those who bear arms to kill you, those who steal wealth, those who steal land and those who steal other people’s wives. The sa- cred texts sanction the killing of these types of criminals. Hence, killing the Kouravas is sanctioned by law. However, Arjuna faces a conﬂict between law and morality.
95 Because the men have been killed in war.
96 Fall from heaven.
97 Arjuna.
98 The word used is kripa, which means pity or compassion. Daya also translates as pity or compassion, but there is a difference between kripa and daya. If daya is the passion, one tries to do something actively to remove the reason for pity or compassion. That is, daya is the path of the strong. Kripa is passive, without the necessary ac- tion and is the path of the weak.
99 The word karpanya can be translated in ways other than helplessness also, such as wretchedness, a pitiable state, or even ignorance.
100 This is a complicated shloka and is subject to diverse interpretations. At one level, the soul is eternal. This is the truth or the reality. The body, the senses and the world are untrue and unreal. They have no existence, in the sense of being illusory.
101 This shloka also gets into complicated issues of interpretation. ‘That’ means the brahman, or paramatman. This is eternal and pervades everything. The body and the world are transitory. But the human soul (jivatman) is also eternal. Are the body and the world illusions, or are they real? What is the relationship between the paramatman and the jivatman? Such questions have led to intense philosophical speculation. The Gita uses the word atman for both the paramatman and the jivatman.
102 Atman.
103 The sacred texts speak of six types of transformations or maladies (vikara)—birth, existence, increase, end, de- crease and destruction. The atman is thus not subject to any of these.
104 Atman.
105 Transformation or vikara has been mentioned in an earlier footnote.
106 This is the straightforward translation. Not being manifest (avyakta) means not recognizable by the senses. Hence, apart from the period of life, beings are part of the inﬁnite, both before birth and after death. In a more complicated interpretation, the reference is not to beings, but to the world itself, avyakta standing for primeval matter or prakriti. In this interpretation, the world is part of this primeval matter before creation and after de- struction, and in between, has a separate existence.
107 The atman.
108 That is, it is impossible to comprehend the nature of the atman.
109 This concludes one segment, the jnana yoga section, so to speak. In case this has not been enough to convince Arjuna, Krishna now moves on to a karma yoga argument. However, this is not just any action, but action with- out attachment.
110 This is known as sankhya. The word buddhi has many nuances or meanings, depending on the context. Here, we have translated it as wisdom.
111 Meaning karma yoga.
112 Karma yoga without attachment.
113 That is, karma yoga without attachment is focused. But action with attachment becomes diffused.
114 That is, rites and rituals of the Vedas, without the knowledge. The Vedas have four parts—Samhita, Brahmana, Aranyaka and Upanishad. The Samhita and Brahmana sections are known as karma kanda, they prescribe rites and rituals. The Aranyaka and Upanishad sections are known as jnana kanda, they are the paths of knowledge.
115 The cycle of action (karma) leading to birth (janma), birth leading to action, action leading to fruit (phala) and fruit leading to further rebirth.
116 Sattva, rajas and tamas. The world, and everything in it, is a mixture of these three qualities or gunas and this shloka asks Arjuna to rise above these three gunas. But the shloka also asks Arjuna to be always under the quali- ty of sattva. Depending on one’s point of view, there may or may not be an issue of interpretation here. In one interpretation, rising above the three gunas means suppressing rajas and tamas and therefore, sattva is needed to rise above the three gunas. In an alternative interpretation, rising above the three gunas is interpreted as being without attachment.
117 The word used is dvandva, meaning doubt. But it also means opposite sensations, like pleasure and pain or happiness and unhappiness. Therefore, dvandva is the outcome of the senses and to be without dvandva means to rise above the senses and look on everything equally.
118 Yoga means what is yet to be attained, while kshema means what has already been attained.
119 As the second part of the shloka makes clear, the word yoga is used here in the very speciﬁc sense of treating success and failure equally.
120 Buddhi yoga. The sense is that the motivation behind the action is superior to the outwardly effect of the action.
121 Meaning, praise of fruits and of heaven. The word shruti can mean that which is heard, or the Vedas. In this shloka and the next, if shruti is interpreted as the Vedas, one means the ritualistic aspects of the Vedas, which speak of fruits like heaven.
122 In a general sense, yoga means union between jivatman and the paramatman. That is also samadhi, union be- tween the human and the divine. There are two words in this shloka, nishchala and achala and the meanings dif- fer marginally. Nischala has a negative nuance in the sense that the mind is not attracted towards irrelevant dis- tractions. Achala has a positive nuance in the sense that the mind is focused on whatever one is meditating on and doesn’t waver from that.
123 Starving himself is the straightforward interpretation. However, a more general interpretation is also possible, that is, the reference is to a person who restrains his senses from addiction to sensual objects.
124 In a person in whom wisdom is established.
125 The senses.
126 Objects.
127 Confusion of memory about what is right.
128 Attachment to sensual objects and hatred when desired outcomes don’t result.
129 Intellect and thought about the paramatman.
130 There are ﬁve senses—sight, hearing, smell, taste and touch.
131 That is, at the time of death.
132 In the earlier chapter, two paths are mentioned—jnana yoga and karma yoga, though the expression karma yoga is never directly used. Arjuna infers a suggestion that jnana yoga or the path of knowledge is superior to karma yoga or the path of action. This chapter explains that this suggestion is incorrect and that avoidance of action is not the answer. Instead, detached action is the key.
133 Followers of sankhya are those who tread the path of knowledge and the word yogi is being used for those who tread the path of action.
134 That is, giving up action.
135 Prakriti has been translated as nature. And the qualities are the three gunas of sattva, rajas and tamas.
136 That is, limbs and the like. The ﬁve organs of action are the mouth, hands, feet, the anus and sexual organs. The ﬁve senses of knowledge are sight, hearing, smell, taste and touch.
137 Instead of being a hypocrite, one can use the stronger translation of being a liar.
138 There is scope for interpreting what prescribed action (niyatam karma) is. Is it rites and rituals? In that case, it doesn’t quite apply to Arjuna, because he is not a brahmana. Is it duty? Is it action without attachment?
139 This translation is problematic. Traditionally, yajna means a sacriﬁce, but the Gita is against such rituals. The word yajna has also been equated with God in the sense of Vishnu, but that’s not terribly convincing either. It is also possible that these sections may have been interpolated into the Gita later. They don’t quite ﬁt. However, later, the Gita uses the word yajna in a broader sense.
140 Meaning, before creation.
141 Brahma.
142 The word sacriﬁce (yajna) causes a problem again. As opposed to the creation itself, sacriﬁce may mean laying down prescribed duties for these created beings.
143 The yajna.
144 The yajna again.
145 The gods.
146 Leftovers after gods and guests have had their shares.
147 This requires explanation, since there are three ‘brahmas’ in the shloka. The ﬁrst two have conventionally been identiﬁed with the Vedas and the third with the brahman, although in a few rare cases, the third has also been identiﬁed with Vedas. That leaves the word akshara, meaning something that is indestructible. This too, is the brahman.
148 Righteous king. However, there was more than one king named Janaka and this reference is to the ﬁrst Janaka, the son of Mithi, from whom Mithila obtained its name. This Janaka, also mentioned in the Ramayana, is differ- ent from the Janaka who was Sita’s father.
149 The sense is to convey a broader message of mixture and confusion.
150 The ignorant ones. The Gita doesn’t favour renunciation and withdrawal from action.
151 Nature is prakriti and the qualities are the three gunas mentioned earlier.
152 The gunas.
153 Different in the sense of being performed by different senses or organs.
154 Another difﬁcult shloka to translate. Nature’s (prakriti) qualities work on each other and get action done through the senses and the organs. This realization means that one ceases to think of oneself as the doer.
155 In the sense of distracting them from action. That is, learned people shouldn’t ask ignorant ones to desist from action.
156 Mental fever of suffering and sorrow.
157 The expression without ﬁnding fault is signiﬁcant. There must therefore have been opposition to this view or teaching. For instance, there was the school of sannyasa or renunciation, which advocated the giving up of all action.
158 From this shloka alone, it is not clear what restraint is meant. The next shloka suggests it is restraint of the senses. Because nature has its own way, forcible restraint of the senses is pointless. The point is not to restrain the senses, but rise above them.
159 If taste is the sense in question, a sweet taste can lead to attachment. But as its opposite, a bitter taste can lead to aversion.
160 One’s own dharma is svadharma. Most English translations translate this is as one’s own duty. That of course begs the question of what one’s own duty is. In the context of the Gita, this meant varnashrama dharma, which meant that a person’s duty depended on his varna (caste) and his ashrama (stage of life). A kshatriya’s duty was to ﬁght. Even when the rigidity of varnashrama dharma is relaxed, one’s duty continues to be a function of one’s chosen profession.
161 Deviation from svadharma or falling prey to the senses.
162 There are six vices or sins— kama (desire), krodha (anger), lobha (avarice), moha (delusion), mada (vanity) and matsarya (envy). But here, desire and anger have been singled out.
163 In this world.
164 Meaning either this world, or knowledge.
165 The sins, speciﬁcally desire. Alternatively, ignorance can also be meant.
166 Desire’s.
167 Desire.
168 The senses.
169 Desire.
170 We have used the word knowledge, but the shloka has two words signifying knowledge—jnana and vijnana. Jnana is knowledge one learns from one’s teachers or from the sacred texts. Vijnana is a special type of jnana and is knowledge one picks up through introspection, meditation and self-realization.
171 Superior to objects, because senses are subtle. Or perhaps even superior to the body.
172 The atman.
173 There is scope for interpretation here, because there are two atmans in the shloka. Use the atman to calm the atman. That’s the literal translation, but what does it mean? We have translated the ﬁrst atman as inner strength. Or the ﬁrst atman may be the intellect and the second atman may mean the mind.
174 Eternal, immutable or indestructible. The yoga is eternal or immutable in the sense that following it leads to imperishability. This yoga is a splicing of karma yoga, jnana yoga and bhakti yoga, because one spills over into another and differences between the three are artiﬁcial. The expression ‘this’ yoga is used because the yoga has already been described in earlier chapters.
175 One of the twelve adityas born to the sage Kashyapa and Aditi. Vivasvat is thus a manifestation of the sun god and his dynasty is the solar dynasty (surya vamsha). Vivasvat’s son is Manu, known as Vaivasvata Manu. Manu is actually a title and there are fourteen Manus. Vaivasvata Manu, or the present Manu, is the seventh in this line of fourteen and the reference is to the beginning of treta yuga in the present manvantara (cycle of creation and destruction). Vaivasvata Manu’s son was Ikshaku.
176 The expression is rajarshi, which means a king (raja) who is a sage (rishi), despite being a king. Janaka is an example.
177 The yoga.
178 That is, knowledge of the yoga has been destroyed.
179 The word used is sakha, which as mentioned earlier, means kindred soul.
180 The word used in the Sanskrit is maya, translated often as illusion. Resolution is a better translation in this con- text. This, and the next two shlokas, brings in the idea of avatara (incarnation). Usually, Vishnu is believed to have had ten incarnations. But twenty-two or twenty-four incarnations are also known.
181 Yuga is an era or epoch. Each of Brahma’s days consists of four yugas— satya, treta, dvapara and kali.
182 The birth is divine because it is not the outcome of normal laws of birth and death, but results from Krishna’s own will.
183 The sense is that karma yoga without attachment does lead to results, but that path is difﬁcult and takes time. In contrast, pursuit of pleasure and wealth is easier and faster. Because people want quick results, they worship other gods, who help them achieve pleasure and wealth, even though these are transient.
184 In the translation, we have left the word as varna instead of caste, because the equation of varna with caste, and more importantly, when the caste system developed historically and when caste became hereditary, are questions subject to debate. The three gunas or qualities are sattva, rajas and tamas. The sattva quality predominates in brahmanas and their prescribed action is studying and priestly duties. The rajas quality, with some sattva quality, predominates in kshatriyas and their prescribed action is ﬁghting and ruling. The rajas quality, with some tamas quality, predominates in vaishyas and their prescribed action is agriculture and trade. The tamas quality predom- inates in shudras and their prescribed action is serving the other three castes.
185 Without change and immutable.
186 The paramatman is both nirguna (without qualities) and saguna (with qualities). In the saguna or active form, the paramatman is the creator and the agent. But in the nirguna form, the paramatman is inactive or passive and not the agent.
187 The word used is akarma. Etymologically, this can mean action or inaction, the non-performance of action, the sense in which it has been translated. However, akarma can also mean the performance of action that is undesir- able. But the next shloka indicates that performance of undesirable or prohibited action is vikarma.
188 And by implication, what is inaction.
189 This sounds confusing. Action is performed by the organs and the senses, not the atman. The wise or intelligent person thus sees inaction in action, and the vanity of action and attachment to its fruits are given up. There are those who indulge in inaction or renunciation, giving up action. But the wise or intelligent person realizes that not only does action continue to be performed even when ostensibly inaction is resorted to, there is vanity in this idea of giving up action. Because the person who has resolved to give up action, is not the atman either. There- fore, there is action in inaction. Wisdom is in yoga or union with the paramatman. And because one gives up the right to all action and inaction, one has the right to all action.
190 The expression used is devoid of kamasankalpa. Kama is desire, implying desire for the fruits of action. Sankalpa is will or resolution, implying the will or ego of performing action or inaction. Discarding sankalpa means discarding this ego.
191 Without refuge in action or its fruits, attained or unattained.
192 Parigraha is giving or taking of possessions, such as giving alms or receiving them. Since that has been given up, all ownership has been discarded.
193 Realizing that the body is not the same as the atman. An alternative interpretation of performing action only for the sake of preserving the body is possible. But that is the path of renunciation, a path the Gita doesn’t approve of.
194 Unsought in the sense of these being gains one hasn’t made an effort to obtain. Nor has one craved for these gains.
195 Opposite feelings of happiness and unhappiness or heat and cold.
196 Free from all emotions and sense of ownership.
197 In this context, yajna should not be translated as a sacriﬁce. Yajna doesn’t mean a ritualistic sacriﬁce. It means action performed for union (yoga) with the paramatman.
198 The action and the fruits of the action are destroyed and don’t lead to bondage, because this is inaction.
199 In a yajna.
200 Divine yajnas are ritualistic yajnas performed for various gods.
201 That is, everything is offered to the brahman. This may mean all action and its fruit. It may also mean the sym- bolic offering of the jivatman to the paramatman.
202 They control their senses.
203 They remain unattached to the senses.
204 Senses mean the ﬁve senses or organs of action (the mouth, hands, feet, the anus and sexual organs) as well as the ﬁve senses of knowledge (sight, hearing, smell, taste and touch).
205 The breath of life is prana and this has ﬁve actions—prana (exhalation), apana (downward inhalation), vyana (diffusion through the body), udana (upward inhalation) and samana (digestive breath).
206 The yoga of atmasanyama or focusing the atman in the intellect.
207 The word used is svadhaya, meaning studying on one’s own. This is interpreted as studying the Vedas.
208 This shloka brings in pranayama. Prana is a general expression for the breath of life, as well as a speciﬁc term for the act of exhalation. Ayama means control or restraint, so pranayama is control of the breath of life. Pranayama has three components— puraka, rechaka and kumbhaka. Puraka is when the inhaled apana air ﬁlls up the exhaled prana air and temporarily stops its exit. Rechaka is when the exhaled prana air stops the entry of the inhaled apana air. Kumbhaka is when prana and apana are both controlled and the air is restrained inside the body. Offering the prana breath in the apana breath is therefore puraka.
209 Rechaka.
210 Kumbhaka.
211 The Sanskrit says offer prana to prana. The ﬁrst prana, in the plural, has traditionally been interpreted as the senses. The second prana can either be the senses or the breath of life.
212 After gods have had their share.
213 The Sanskrit states brahman. This is important because most translations and interpretations interpret this brah- man as the Vedas and therefore suggest sacriﬁces prescribed by the Vedas. Not only is this interpretation forced, the Gita doesn’t generally assign such supremacy to the Vedas. Most ritual yajnas involve offerings made to the ﬁre and Agni is therefore thought of as the mouth of the gods. In this broader deﬁnition of yajnas, probably no more than that extended metaphor is meant, when thinking of the brahman’s mouth.
214 That is, a yajna where offerings of objects have the main focus.
215 The knowledge.
216 Sannyasa is sometimes interpreted as renunciation or the giving up of action and jnana yoga or the path of knowledge is therefore interpreted as this path of inaction. This chapter compares sannyasa yoga and karma yoga and argues against such a narrow interpretation of sannyasa and jnana.
217 That is, karma yoga. Hence, practice of action.
218 The issue arises because pursuit of knowledge (jnana yoga) has been stated to be better and this suggests re- nunciation (sannyasa) of action. Yet, there is an emphasis on karma yoga.
219 That is, one doesn’t have to renounce the world or renounce action to become a sannyasi.
220 Opposite sentiments of happiness and unhappiness, love and aversion and so on.
221 More literally, children.
222 In the Sanskrit, the word sankhya stands for knowledge or renunciation and the word yoga for action or karma yoga.
223 Alternatively, renunciation can only be attained with difﬁculty.
224 That is, sleep.
225 Open and close refers to the action of the eyelids.
226 The atman doesn’t get involved in senses, action or objects.
227 This amounts to transcending the personal ego of thinking oneself to be the performer of action.
228 Attachment to fruits of action, as well as to egos. Yogis means karmayogis.
229 Alternatively, peace that results from steadfastness.
230 Recognizing that action is performed by the senses and the organs. That is, action is mentally discarded, not physically.
231 The nine gates of the body are two eyes, two ears, two nostrils, the mouth, the anus and the genital organ.
232 The word used in the Sanskrit is prabhu, meaning lord. Depending on how lord is interpreted, the meaning can change. For instance, lord can be interpreted as the lord of all the worlds, instead of lord of the body, as we have interpreted it. For instance, in the next shloka, the paramatman or lord of the worlds is meant and the word used is vibhu, meaning supreme lord. Therefore, prabhu probably means the atman.
233 The word used is svabhava, meaning one’s own nature.
234 The great truth can also be interpreted as the paramatman.
235 Throughout this shloka, that means the paramatman.
236 More literally, those beings do not return.
237 The word used is shvapaka, which means dog-eater or someone who cooks food for dogs. This is usually equated with chandala or outcaste.
238 This is not very clear. We have translated sarga, which can also mean creation, as the earth. The sense probably is that one can win or overcome this earth, with its birth and death, in this world itself, without waiting for future worlds.
239 Those whose minds are established in equality.
240 That is, pleasure through the senses.
241 This world or this body.
242 Inside means in the atman.
243 Because the brahman exists all around.
244 This is kumbhaka.
245 The free sage is doing the knowing. In this shloka, the subject is not explicitly stated. And it is also the free sage who attains peace.
246 There was a reference to dhyana or meditation earlier and this takes the discussion forward.
247 The word used is sannyasi.
248 The word used is niragni. Agni (the ﬁre) is associated with prescribed rites and sacriﬁces and niragni is some- one who has given up the sacred ﬁre, that is, these rites and rituals. Such a person is a mendicant who lives by alms.
249 Tranquillity in the sense of self-possession. The word used is shama and this has also been translated as inac- tion. In that case, inaction is the means for a person who has ascended to yoga.
250 Realizing the essence of the atman is the core of yoga. One should use one’s own self or atman to understand the true nature of the atman. Then the self or atman becomes the true atman’s friend. Otherwise, it is the true at- man’s enemy.
251 Speciﬁcally, controlled the senses.
252 Transcending emotions like attachment and aversion.
253 Union between the paramatman and the jivatman is the core of yoga. But here, the word paramatman is used in the sense of the jivatman.
254 The words jnana and vijnana are both used. Both mean knowledge. But as mentioned earlier, jnana is knowl- edge obtained through instruction and vijnana is knowledge obtained through self-realization and introspection.
255 The words suhrida and mitra are both used. As mentioned earlier, suhrida is a well-wisher and a mitra is some- one with whom one works together.
256 Udasin and madhyastha both refer to disputes. Udasin is someone who is neutral to the dispute and mad- hyastha is someone who tries to arbitrate.
257 We have translated bandhu as friend. As mentioned earlier, a bandhu is someone from whom one cannot bear to be separated and generally means a relative.
258 Such a person.
259 Without receiving and giving objects.
260 Kusha is sacred grass. On a bed of kusha grass, will ﬁrst be placed the hide (ajina) of an animal (like a tiger) and then on top of that, a piece of cloth (chaila) to get the seat.
261 Tip of one’s nose is the literal translation. Some say, tip or top of the nose is to be interpreted from the bottom up, so it means the middle of the eyebrows. Others say the tip means the sky ahead of the tip of the nose.
262 The sentence sounds incomplete in the English rendering. But the description is of a state when yoga is achieved.
263 The yogi.
264 The sentence sounds incomplete in the English rendering. Again, that is when yoga is achieved.
265 The subject is suppressed in the Sanskrit. It is the yogi, practising yoga.
266 The word hopelessness requires clariﬁcation. Hopelessness can result because one may practise yoga for a long time without getting close to liberation.
267 The two words sankalpa (wish) and kama (desire) are almost synonymous and the Gita often uses them inter- changeably. However, this shloka draws a difference between the two, suggesting that desire results from wishes.
268 That is, thinking about nothing else. What has been described is also called raja yoga or samadhi yoga. This has eight components— yama (the practice of moral virtues), niyama (purity in habits, study and practice of aus- terities), asana (posture), pranayama (the control of breath), pratyahara (withdrawal of the mind), dharana (concentration), dhyana (meditation) and samadhi (merging with the paramatman).
269 This can also be translated as without ignorance.
270 Because of the realization that there is no difference between one’s own self and someone else.
271 In every being.
272 Of the mind.
273 Restraining the mind is as difﬁcult as restraining the wind.
274 The word both needs explanation. Such a person is denied liberation because he has deviated from yoga. At the same time, he is deprived heavenly pleasures because he hasn’t followed that path either.
275 The word used is tata.
276 Even if this falls short of the complete yoga of liberation or deviates from the path.
277 There are many such worlds (lokas) and it will be incorrect to think of this only as heaven (svarga). The Gita will have more details later.
278 The subject is suppressed in the Sanskrit.
279 About liberation.
280 To the path of yoga.
281 The word used in the Sanskrit is shabdabrahma, as opposed to the paramatman, brahman or parabrahma. Shabdabrahma is the ritualistic elements of the Vedas, the karma kanda. A person who wishes to know about yoga does better than someone who practises rituals alone.
282 Those who are learned in the sacred texts alone.
283 Those who perform action like sacriﬁces for the purpose of attaining heaven.
284 The ﬁrst six chapters constitute almost a distinct sub-component of the Gita. Although this ﬁrst sub-component also has a mix of jnana yoga and even bhakti yoga, the emphasis is on karma yoga. With the seventh chapter, we move to the second sub-component and there is a switch in emphasis to bhakti yoga.
285 This is knowledge through self-realization (vijnana), as opposed to knowledge through instruction or texts (jnana).
286 By implication, among thousands.
287 More generally, energy.
288 The Gita uses the expression apara prakriti. This corresponds to what is called prakriti in sankhya philosophy, the original source of the material world. And the Gita uses the expression para prakriti for what is called pu- rusha in sankhya philosophy. Apara prakriti is inert or inactive and insensate. Para prakriti is active and sensate.
289 Para prakriti.
290 Sensate and insensate.
291 Para prakriti.
292 The word used in the text is pranava.
293 The word used is paurusha and in stating that the brahman is present in human prowess, there are two related nuances. First, prowess has a divine origin and therefore, one shouldn’t be vain about it. Second, if the brahman is present in humans as prowess, there is no reason for weakness and one should attempt to awaken this innate prowess.
294 Desire is kama and is an emotion that concerns objects that haven’t been obtained. Attachment is raga and is an emotion that concerns objects that have already been obtained and are in one’s possession.
295 Everyone is not able to transcend desire. For ordinary people, some desire that concerns householder’s duties or the physical act of existence is sanctioned by dharma.
296 Bhava has been translated as condition. When sattva dominates, the condition is characterized by thirst for knowledge, lack of attachment and the like. When rajas dominates, the condition is characterized by delight, pride, lust and the like. When tamas dominates, the condition is characterized by sorrow, illusion, sloth and the like.
297 The word used is maya and is commonly translated as illusion. For present purposes, maya seems to mean apara prakriti or prakriti of sankhya philosophy, created from the three gunas and therefore, constituting ignorance.
298 In this world or in heaven. The ﬁrst three categories are driven by desire, of one form or another.
299 Always united with me and worshipping me alone.
300 These four.
301 That form of god or idol.
302 That rite or method.
303 Those worshippers.
304 Are temporary.
305 Dvanda, mentioned earlier. Opposite sensations like pleasure and pain or happiness and unhappiness.
306 The jivatman.
307 This takes off from the last shloka of the last chapter, where there is a reference to the one who underlies all beings (adhibhuta), underlies all gods (adhidaiva) and underlies all yajnas (adhiyajna). This chapter is an an- swer to Arjuna’s questions about these and reiterates the road to uniﬁcation with the supreme spirit.
308 The Sanskrit uses the expression adhyatma. This is usually, but not always, interpreted as the individual atman or jivatman. Adhyatma has also been interpreted as the natural trait of any object.
309 These expressions occur in the last verse of the preceding chapter. We have translated adhibhuta as that which underlies all beings and adhidaiva as that which underlies all gods. Adhibhuta is the temporary element that oc- cupies all beings, such as that object’s nature or the body. Adhidaiva is the creator, Hiranyagarbha or Brahma. That last verse of the preceding chapter also has reference to that which underlies all yajnas, that is, adhiyajna. Adhiyajna is Vishnu. However, as we have said earlier, adhyatma has also been interpreted as the natural trait of any object. In that interpretation, adhibhuta is the temporary trait of any object and adhidaiva is its permanent counterpart. Paraphrased, the brahman is without qualities. But the brahman is manifested in a form with quali- ties for purposes of creating the universe and the elements and that is adhyatma. However, the universe and all action are temporary, they are adhibhuta. Nevertheless, the universe and all action retain a permanent quality and that is adhidaiva.
310 Adhiyajna.
311 In sacriﬁces.
312 The subject is suppressed in the Sanskrit. The subject is the yogi and he attains the supreme spirit.
313 Beyond darkness can be interpreted in the metaphorical sense of being beyond transient nature. This descrip- tion of the supreme spirit draws on the Upanishads.
314 The thinking is taking place at the time of death.
315 The Sanskrit says all the gates, and we have translated this as all the senses and organs. As mentioned earlier, the nine gates of the body are the two eyes, two ears, two nostrils, the mouth, the anus and the genital organ.
316 Through rebirth.
317 Through rebirth.
318 There are seven lokas or worlds and in ascending order, these are bhuh (the earth), bhuvah, svah, mahah, janah, tapah and satya or brahma. Depending on one’s action, one may attain one of these lokas. But that resi- dence there is temporary and is only for the duration that one’s righteous action entitles one to. Thereafter, one is reborn on earth unless one attains the brahman, when one is freed from the cycle.
319 Yuga is an era or epoch. Each of Brahma’s days consists of four yugas—satya, treta, dvapara and kali. But be- fore that, time is not the same for the gods and humans. Six human months correspond to a divine day and six human months correspond to a divine night. Therefore, 360 human years are equivalent to one divine year. Mea- sured in divine years, satya yuga is 4,000 years, treta yuga is 3,000 years, dvapara yuga is 2,000 years and kali yuga is 1,000 years, giving a total of 10,000 years. But there are also 500 years as transition periods from one yuga to another, so a four yuga cycle actually consists of 12,000 divine years. A four yuga cycle, known as ma- hayuga, is therefore 4,320,000 human years, satya yuga contributing 1,728,000, treta yuga 1,296,000, dvapara yuga 864,000 and kali yuga 432,000 years. One thousand mahayugas are Brahma’s day and another 1,000 ma- hayugas are Brahma’s night. Each of Brahma’s days is called a kalpa. The beginning of a kalpa is when creation occurs and at the end of the kalpa, there is destruction.
320 There is an emphasis that it is the same beings that are born again and again.
321 The ﬁrst unmanifest is Brahma when he is sleeping, or nature (prakriti). The second unmanifest is the brahman or paramatman.
322 Kala should actually be translated as time or period. But, in what follows, the enumeration is of path or road. Broadly, there are two roads to liberation— devayana and pitriyana. Devayana is the path of austerities, penance and knowledge, leading to the attainment of brahmaloka (Brahma’s world). Pitriyana is the path of action, right- eous householder duties and action, leading to the attainment of chandraloka (the world of the moon).
323 Shuklapaksha.
324 Uttarayana, when the sun is in the northern solstice.
325 This is descriptive of devayana. Those who follow devayana are said to ﬁrst attain energy and then, in ascend- ing order, day, shuklapaksha, six months of uttarayana, the year, the sun, the moon, lightning, ending with brahmaloka.
326 Krishnapaksha.
327 Dakshinayana, when the sun is in the southern solstice.
328 Is subject to rebirth. This is descriptive of pitriyana. Those who follow pitriyana are said to ﬁrst attain smoke and then, in ascending order, night, krishnapaksha, six months of dakshinayana, pitriloka (the world of the an- cestors), and the sky, ending with chandraloka.
329 The nature of the paramatman has been discussed in the preceding chapter and that chapter also explained bhakti yoga. This chapter extends those arguments and it is argued that compared to jnana yoga, the path of bhakti yoga is easier. In addition, the path of bhakti yoga is one that is available to everyone.
330 The Sanskrit can be translated as someone who is not envious or not a detractor who ﬁnds fault. Had Arjuna been such a person, secret knowledge shouldn’t have been divulged to him.
331 As mentioned earlier, knowledge is jnana and self-realization is vijnana.
332 Both for secret and knowledge, the qualifying word raja is used. This can also be translated as royal. That ex- plains the title of the chapter.
333 This apparent contradiction is the reason why the word yoga is used in this shloka. The paramatman is both with qualities (saguna) and nirguna (without qualities). In saguna form, beings are established in the paramat- man, but not in nirguna form. Also, the paramatman is not established in beings because it is more than beings and the universe taken together.
334 At the end of a kalpa, destruction takes place and creation occurs when a new kalpa starts.
335 The beings are helpless because their rebirth and nature is preordained by their earlier action.
336 Alternatively, because of this, the universe goes round and round.
337 That is, those who are ignorant and show disrespect. Actually, the words asura and rakshasa are both used in the Sanskrit and we have captured both as demons. However, asura is the antithesis of gods (sura) and rakshasa is a separate species.
338 The subject is actually suppressed in the Sanskrit.
339 Worshipping as one means regarding the worshipper and the worshipped as identical. This can be called the advaitva attitude. Worshipping as separate is the dvaitva attitude, where the worshipper and the worshipper are regarded as distinct.
340 Kratu, yajna and svadha are all words for sacriﬁces, but they have been listed separately in the shloka. Svadha is a sacriﬁce performed speciﬁcally for dead ancestors, like shraddha ceremonies. Kratu is a ritualistic yajna, with prescribed rites. The word yajna can be used in the broader and non-ritualistic sense.
341 The respective hymns that collectively constitute the Rig, the Sama and the Yajur Veda.
342 The repository of everything after destruction, and the seed of creation.
343 I provide heat as the sun and attract water up in the sky as clouds. The Sanskrit uses the words sat and asat and we have translated these as eternal and the transient, meaning the indestructible brahman and the transient uni- verse. However, sat can also be translated as unmanifest nature and asat as its manifest counterpart. Indeed, in some Upanishads, sat is taken to mean what can be seen, that is, the universe and asat is taken to mean what cannot be seen, that is, the brahman. This will then be exactly the opposite of what we have translated. However, our translation is in conformity with usage elsewhere in the Gita.
344 The three Vedas—the Rig Veda, the Sama Veda and the Yajur Veda. The Atharva Veda came later.
345 Here, heaven can also be translated as the abode of Indra.
346 The three Vedas again.
347 What is yet to be attained is yoga and what has been attained is kshema.
348 To rebirth on earth.
349 Pitris or manes.
350 Alternatively, the spirits. The worshippers of yakshas or rakshas are examples.
351 My worshippers.
352 As has been said earlier, sannyasa doesn’t mean asceticism and the abjuring of action. It means detachment and offering all action and its fruit to the paramatman.
353 The most evil of persons.
354 The idea is that the shastras are prohibited to women, vaishyas and shudras. But bhakti yoga is available to everyone. Those of evil birth means people whose evil actions in earlier lives have led to their present lowly sta- tions. The construction doesn’t suggest ‘those who are of evil birth’ as an adjective for women, vaishyas or shu- dras. Instead, a separate category seems to be meant, perhaps those who were outside the fourfold caste system.
355 That they will attain supreme liberation.
356 This shloka causes a translation problem because the sentence is incomplete. Having attained what? One possi- bility is—having attained the status of pure brahmanas and royal sages. Another possibility is to link it to the clause about the earth being temporary and the source of unhappiness. Hence, having attained a status that is permanent and the source of happiness and so on. Either way, the translation, or the interpretation, doesn’t seem very convincing.
357 This is a continuation of the topics covered in the immediately preceding chapters. The nature of the paramat- man is described. Thereafter, there is a listing
358 The word prabhava can also be translated as strength, instead of origin.
359 Alternatively, on earth.
360 Equality across all beings and across all sentiments.
361 There are two listings of the seven great sages (saptarshis), with a large degree of overlap. The ﬁrst list is Marichi, Angirasa, Atri, Pulastya, Pulaha, Kratu and Vashishtha. The second list is Bhrigu, Marichi, Atri, Angi- ra, Pulaha, Pulastya and Kratu.
362 Who are the four who came before the seven great sages? This causes problems of interpretation. Usually, commentators take this to mean the four great sages Sanaka, Sananda, Sanatana and Sanatkumara, who preced- ed the saptarshis. However, these sages never married and talk of their descendants doesn’t quite make sense. Therefore, this is sometimes interpreted in a metaphorical sense. That is, these four are the four manifestations (murti or vyuha) of Vasudeva— Vasudeva as the soul, Sankarshana as a living being, Pradyumna as the mind and Aniruddha as the ego.
363 As was mentioned earlier, there are fourteen Manus in a kalpa. The list of names varies. But the most common list of the present fourteen Manus is Svayambhuva, Svarochisha, Uttama, Tamasa, Raivata, Chakshusha, Vaivas- vata or Satyavrata, Savarni, Dakshasavarni, Brahmasavarni, Dharmasavarni, Rudrasavarni, Devasavarni and In- drasavarni. The present Manu is Vaivasvata.
364 The word yoga is twice used in this shloka, with different senses. We have translated vibhuti as divine, but it can also be translated in the sense of might or of the paramatman’s vibhuti (divinity or strength), strength. Given the use of the word vibhuti, yoga (the ﬁrst usage) simply means divine power and glory.
365 Now yoga means union with the paramatman and the required meditation and self-realization.
366 About me.
367 The subject is actually suppressed.
368 Narada is a divine sage (devarshi). He was created mentally (rather than physically) by Brahma.
369 Many translations translate Asita and Devala as separate sages. That’s not true. The same sage, who lived on the banks of the Sarasvati River, is sometimes called Asita, sometimes Devala and sometimes Asita-Devala.
370 Vyasa means Vedavyasa or Vyasadeva. He is the collator of the four Vedas, hence the title of Vedavyasa or Vyasadeva. However, in the task of collating and dividing the Vedas, Vedavyasa or Vyasadeva is a title and there has been more than one Vedavyasa. Twenty-eight to be precise. Alternatively, the same Vedavyasa was reborn twenty-eight times. This particular Vedavyasa is the son of the sage Parashara, his mother’s name being Satya- vati. His actual name is Krishna Dvaipayana, Krishna because he was dark and Dvaipayana because he was born on an island. Krishna Dvaipayana Vedavyasa also authored the Mahabharata and the Puranas.
371 If the gods and the demons do not know, an ordinary mortal is hardly expected to do so.
372 So the telling will be selective.
373 The three stages of creation, preservation and destruction.
374 The word aditya means born of Aditi and can refer to all gods in general. However, in this context, it means the twelve manifestations of the sun. These are Dhata, Mitra, Aryama, Rudra, Varuna, Surya, Bhaga, Vivasvan, Pusha, Savita, Tvasta and Vishnu. According to some accounts, one of these shines in each month.
375 The maruts are gods of the wind. The number of the maruts varies from place to place, but in most cases, it is forty-nine.
376 Nakshatra can also be translated as constellation.
377 This is slightly strange, because the Rig Veda is usually regarded as chief among the Vedas. The Sama Veda has hymns that are sung. So perhaps the rationale is that in bhakti yoga, or the path of devotion, songs have greater appeal than mantras that are merely recited.
378 As a god, Rudra is both one and many. As a single god, Rudra occurs in the Vedas and in the Upanishads. However, there are also descriptions of eleven rudras—Aja, Ekapada, Ahivradhna, Virupaksha, Sureshvara, Jayanta, Bahurupa, Tryambaka, Aparajita, Vivasvata and Haya. Sometimes, one has Raivata, Savitra, Pinaki and Ajaikapada replacing Aja, Ekapada, Aparajita and Vivasvata in the list. However, in no list of the eleven rudras does Shankara ﬁgure as a name. So this probably means Shankara as the lord of the rudras, rather than the chief one in a list.
379 Accounts of creation differ. According to one account, Brahma created some creatures in the night. At that time, Brahma was hungry and the resultant creatures also turned out to be hungry. Some tried to eat Brahma and these became the yakshas. Others tried to prevent these devourers and these came to be known as the rakshas. According to other accounts, Brahma created water and then created beings. Some of these wanted to worship and these came to be known as yakshas. Others wanted to protect the water and came to be known as rakshas. The Sanskrit doesn’t use the word Kubera. The Sanskrit expression is literally translated as lord of wealth, which of course, is Kubera. Kubera is also the lord of the yakshas, though not quite of the rakshas.
380 The word used for ﬁre is pavaka. The ﬁre god is Agni and his companions are the vasus, who are eight in num- ber—Apa, Dhruva, Soma, Dhara, Anila, Anala, Pratyusha and Prabhasa. Sometimes, Dyu is mentioned instead of Apa.
381 A mountain at the centre of the earth.
382 The concept of Brihaspati has evolved over time. Beyond a point, Brihaspati became the priest and the precep- tor of the gods.
383 That is, Kartikeya, the general of the gods.
384 One of the seven great sages. According to one account, Bhrigu kicked Vishnu and thereby left his footprint on Vishnu’s chest.
385 Om.
386 There are different kinds of yajnas and the Gita has already mentioned them. Yajnas are usually associated with ritualistic sacriﬁces and the Gita has already said that these are inferior to yajnas that involve karma yoga and bhakti yoga. There is thus a broader interpretation of the word yajna. The word japa means uttering prayers in an undertone and continuously. Hence, japa yajna means invoking Krishna’s name (nama) and is thus also called nama yajna.
387 Ashvattha, a holy tree.
388 Gandharvas are a semi-divine species and they were celestial singers and musicians. Chitraratha is the king of the gandharvas.
389 The great sage Kapila, son of Kardama and Devahuti and proponent of sankhya philosophy.
390 The immortal nectar is amrita and the gods and the demons collectively churned the ocean to raise amrita. To- gether with the amrita, the horse Ucchaishrava and the elephant Airavata arose from the ocean and were accept- ed by Indra.
391 Indra’s thunderbolt.
392 The cow that yields all objects of desire, sometimes known as Surabhi. The word used in the shloka is actually kamadhuk, which means a granter of wishes.
393 Kandarpa is the god of love, also known as Kama or Madana. The suggestion probably is that desire for pro- creation is superior to desire for desire’s sake alone.
394 We have translated the sarpa of shloka 28 as serpent and the naga of shloka 29 as snake. This is unsatisfactory. Ananta is the king of nagas and Vasuki is the king of sarpas. What is the difference between sarpas and nagas? Some people translate sarpa as a poisonous snake and naga as a non-poisonous snake. But that’s not quite true. Both Ananta and Vasuki are the sons of Kadru and are brothers. However, here, they are quite clearly mentioned as distinct species. Sarpas and nagas seem to be differentiated in two ways. First, unlike sarpas, nagas can as- sume human form. Second, unlike sarpas, nagas have separate geographical areas of habitation. Sarpas live on earth.
395 The lord of the ocean.
396 Aryama is a manifestation of the sun and is the ruler of the pitris, ancestors or manes.
397 Those who control the fruits of righteous and evil conduct.
398 We have translated daityas as demons. Daityas are a speciﬁc category of demons, the progeny of Diti. Al- though born into this clan, Prahlada, the son of Hiranyakashipu, was a devotee of Vishnu’s. Eventually, Prahlada became the king of the daityas.
399 There is a slight problem of translation, because the word kalayatam can mean those things that overcome us or those things that devour us.
400 Actually, the Sanskrit text doesn’t use the expression lion. Instead, it uses the expression king of animals.
401 The son of Vinata is Garuda, king of the birds.
402 The word used is makara and a makara is not quite a crocodile. It is part mythical and is sometimes also trans- lated as a crocodile.
403 The river Ganga. Ganga is also known as Jahnavi because she was the daughter of the king Jahnu.
404 There are three kinds of arguments used in debating. Jalpa represents arguments to establish one’s own point of view. Vitanda represents arguments advanced to neutralize the opponent’s point of view. Vada is delinked from the objective of winning and is simply an impartial and objective attempt to deduce the truth.
405 Samasa is part of grammar and the samasa rules are used for compounding words. Dvanda is one type of rule.
406 Type of mantra where the lord is worshipped as the lord of everything.
407 The month of Agrahayana. The month of Agrahayana or Margashirsha is the foremost month because at that time, this used to be the ﬁrst month of the year.
408 A collection of ﬂowers, that is, spring.
409 Gambling representing the best form of cheating.
410 Ushanasa is another name for Shukracharya, son of Bhrigu, and preceptor of the demons. Shukracharya is also a writer on the law. The word kavi doesn’t mean a poet. It means someone who is wise, a seer.
411 Those who ruled had four methods or stratagems—danda (punishment), sama (appeasement), dana (bribery) and bheda (sowing dissension).
412 This chapter is about the vision of the universal form.
413 The twelve adityas, eight vasus, the eleven rudras and the forty-nine maruts mentioned earlier. The two ashvi- nis are physicians of the gods, named thus because their mother (Samjna) was then (at the time of conception) in the form of a mare (ashva). Their names are actually Ashvini and Revanta.
414 With ordinary eyes.
415 There is a minor contradiction in what Arjuna has said. No one other than Arjuna has seen, or can see, this uni- versal form.
416 The saddhyas are gods, twelve or thirteen in number.
417 The vishvadevas is a collective word for gods and divine energy taken together, originally believed to be thirty- three in number (eleven on earth, eleven in the sky and eleven in heaven). This later became 330 million.
418 These are the pitris, ancestors or manes, to whom warm food is served.
419 The siddhas are a semi-divine species, inhabiting the area between the sun and the earth and 88,000 in number.
420 As was mentioned earlier, sutas were charioteers and raconteurs. Although born into a royal family, Karna was raised by a suta and was therefore known as the son of a suta.
421 Or having swallowed all the people. The word loka can be translated in either way.
422 The word kala can also be translated as time. But kala also means destroyer or fate or Yama. In this context, destroyer seems to be a better translation. Similarly, loka has been translated as people, but also means world.
423 That is, even if Arjuna does not ﬁght.
424 Arjuna was also known as Kiriti. Kiriti means someone who wears a crown and Arjuna was so named because he received a crown from Indra.
425 The brahman or the paramatman.
426 The god of the wind.
427 The god of death.
428 The god of ﬁre.
429 The god of the ocean.
430 The moon or the moon god.
431 Meaning, in this context, Brahma. The word prajapati literally means lord or creator of beings. Brahma men- tally created ten sages who later created other beings. These ten sages, who were also known as prajapatis, were Marichi, Atri, Angira, Pulastya, Pulaha, Kratu, Vasishtha, Daksha, Bhrigu and Narada. Other beings were de- scended from them and Brahma is therefore the grandfather (pitamaha). Since the word prajapati is used in the shloka in the singular rather than the plural, it clearly means Brahma.
432 If Brahma is the grandfather (pitamaha), great-grandfather (prapitamaha) is Brahma’s creator, that is, the brah- man or the paramatman.
433 The universal form.
434 Krishna, meaning the one without decay.
435 This sentence sounds incomplete in the English rendering. Like a father, a friend or a beloved forgives, the son’s, friend’s or lover’s errors or transgressions, forgive mine.
436 If chakra has to be translated, it can only be translated as disc or discus. The chakra is Vishnu and Krishna’s weapon.
437 This requires explanation. Krishna has two arms, but Vishnu has four. The explanation therefore is that Arjuna knew Krishna to be a manifestation of Vishnu. Alternatively, Krishna could have adopted Vishnu’s form temporarily.
438 This concludes the bhakti yoga segment. The issue is simple. Is it better to worship the nirguna form of the paramatman or the saguna form? The former is the path of knowledge (jnana) and the latter is the path of devo- tion (bhakti). For most people, the latter is easier.
439 The brahman or the paramatman.
440 Paraphrased, is bhakti yoga superior or is jnana yoga superior? The word yogi is being used for someone who achieves union with God.
441 The word kutastha can be translated in various ways. We have translated it in the sense of being the original cause of everything. But it can also mean unchanging or the refuge of this illusory world. There can even be a metaphorical interpretation of being immovable like the peak of a mountain.
442 And therefore possess a sense of the individual self and the individual ego.
443 That is, the path of jnana yoga is difﬁcult. The path of bhakti yoga is easier.
444 In some interpretations, there is an emphasis on the ‘alone’ clause, arguing that this is superior to establishing one’s mind on the brahman and therefore, this shloka demonstrates the superiority of bhakti yoga to jnana yoga. This interpretation seems to be both contrived and unnecessary.
445 After death.
446 Practise yoga, with practise used as a verb, makes for better English. But a literally more accurate translation is, through the yoga of practice. The word yoga is used in many different senses in the Gita. Later shlokas sug- gest that the yoga of practice means pranayama.
447 This is not the same as performing action without attachment. That comes in the next shloka. Here, deeds mean rites or acts associated with bhakti yoga, such as listening to or singing devotional songs, ceremonies of worship and the like.
448 That is, karma yoga, where action and fruits of all action are offered up to the brahman.
449 Historically, this shloka has caused several problems of interpretation. By practice, one means the practice of yoga, or pranayama. Since this can be purely mechanical, knowledge (jnana) must be superior to this. But in what sense is dhyana (meditation) superior to knowledge? The answer certainly lies in the distinction drawn be- tween jnana (knowledge) and vijnana (self-realization). Jnana is knowledge learnt from one’s teachers or from the sacred texts. Vijnana is a special type of jnana and is knowledge picked up through introspection, meditation and self-realization. So the knowledge of this shloka is speciﬁc knowledge picked up from elsewhere and is not knowledge in a general sense. And vijnana or knowledge through meditation and self-realization is superior to jnana. Most historical commentators preferred renunciation of action to karma yoga. The preference was for sannyasa. Therefore, there were problems in interpreting the superiority of action to meditation. And by linking up this shloka with the preceding one, it was argued that karma yoga was for those who couldn’t perform medi- tation and follow the path of jnana, jnana being interpreted generally, rather than in the speciﬁc sense of knowl- edge picked up from teachers or sacred texts.
450 This ﬁrmness of conviction or resolution is interpreted as ﬁrmness of faith in Krishna.
451 The word used is amarsha. This can be translated as dissatisfaction from not having attained one’s desires. But it can also be translated as envy, because others have got what they want.
452 Or, without expectation.
453 Renouncing all fruit is not a literal translation. A literal translation is renouncing all attempts, beginnings or en- deavours (arambha). However, attempts, beginnings or endeavours are for speciﬁc gains, in this world or the next. Hence, someone who has renounced these is someone who has renounced all fruits.
454 The interpretation of giving up good and evil is that one has given up the good and evil fruits or results of action.
455 A literal translation of mouni is someone who is silent or doesn’t speak.
456 Without habitation or without a home presumably means someone who is not attached to the home or habitation.
457 With this chapter, there is a switch in emphasis to jnana yoga.
458 Field or repository.
459 The body is the kshetra. The person who knows the body is someone who has a sense of ownership of the body and this is the kshetrajna, that is, the jivatman or the individual soul. Those who know about kshetra and kshetrajna call the individual soul kshetrajna.
460 That is true knowledge.
461 The kshetrajna.
462 The theory of kshetra and kshetrajna.
463 The reference to the sages (rishis) singing is to the Vedas. The Brahmanas, the Aranyakas and the Upanishads followed the Vedas and are collectively known as Vedanta. One interpretation is that this shloka refers to the Vedas and the Vedanta, and in the latter case, especially to the Upanishads, because it is there that the nature of the brahman is particularly discussed. However, there is also a collection of aphorisms (sutras) known as Brah- masutra. This is ascribed to Badarayana, Badarayana being identiﬁed as Vedavyasa. If the Brahmasutra was compiled before the Gita, the second part of this shloka could also be a reference to this speciﬁc text.
464 The ﬁve core elements of prithvi or kshiti (the earth), apa (water), tejas (energy), vayu or marut (the wind) and akasha or vyoma (the sky).
465 As mentioned earlier, the unmanifest (avyakta) means primeval matter or prakriti.
466 The ten organs of sense are the ﬁve organs of action (the mouth, hands, feet, the anus and sexual organs) and the ﬁve senses (sight, hearing, smelling, tasting and touching).
467 By the single one, is meant the mind.
468 The objects of the ﬁve senses are rupa (form), shabda (sound), gandha (smell), rasa (ﬂavour) and sparsha (touch).
469 The word samghata means union, combination or collection. Because the senses are united in the body, combi- nation refers to the body.
470 Towards others.
471 In righteous action.
472 Towards objects.
473 The subject is suppressed. With that knowledge, the seeker attains immortality.
474 The subject is again suppressed and is a reference to the brahman. We have translated sat and asat as the eternal and the transient, meaning the indestructible brahman and the transient universe. However, sat can also be trans- lated as unmanifest nature and asat as its manifest counterpart.
475 The brahman.
476 The brahman is both nirguna (without qualities) and saguna (with qualities).
477 Know the brahman, the object is suppressed in the shloka.
478 The brahman is established.
479 The word used is bhava, which can be translated in different ways. The devotee attains or realizes the brah- man’s nature. Alternatively, the devotee gains Krishna’s love and affection.
480 The qualities (gunas) of sattva, rajas and tamas.
481 In sankhya philosophy, prakriti is the original source of the material world and is active. The Gita has earlier used the expression apara prakriti for prakriti. Purusha (the soul) is inert or inactive and the Gita has earlier used the expression para prakriti for purusha.
482 This is the straightforward translation. But in interpretations, the senses are the cause and the body is the effect.
483 The reason.
484 Otherwise, the inactive purusha shouldn’t have a sense of happiness or unhappiness.
485 Of the purusha.
486 Because the word atman can mean different things, there is a problem of interpretation. The simplest meaning is the following. Some people themselves (with the atman) use meditation to see the atman (the paramatman) in themselves (in the atman). But atman can also mean body, mind or intellect. Hence, an alternative translation is to use the mind to see the paramatman in the intellect or to use the mind to see the paramatman in the body.
487 Here, sankhya yoga probably means jnana yoga, or the path of knowledge. But it can also mean sannyasa yoga or the path of renunciation.
488 Failing to know through their own efforts.
489 What does killing the atman with the atman mean? Incidentally, instead of a strong translation of killing, a weaker translation of doing violence to is also possible. The traditional interpretation of killing the atman with the atman is the following. Uplifting one’s self (atman) is possible. Not attempting to do this is tantamount to killing oneself. If the weaker translation of doing violence is used, another interpretation is possible. He who has attained true knowledge sees the same paramatman in everything and knows that there is no difference between doing harm to one’s own self and to someone else. He avoids doing violence to the atman (someone else) with the atman (one’s own self).
490 The paramatman.
491 Speciﬁcally, not attached to the fruit of action.
492 Kshetra is of course bodies. And the word kshetrajna has been used for the jivatman. Here, the word kshetri obviously stands for the paramatman and kshetri and kshetrajna are effectively synonymous.
493 What does freedom from beings and prakriti mean? Prakriti is the root cause of being and beings and prakriti therefore stands for ignorance. Knowledge brings freedom from this ignorance. Therefore, one could also have said—‘freedom of beings from prakriti’. Indeed, some translations state it thus. But our translation is a more correct rendering of the Sanskrit.
494 This chapter is about the three gunas (qualities) of sattva, rajas and tamas.
495 The bondage of life.
496 Meaning, prakriti or nature.
497 We have translated yoni as womb and garbha as seed. Instead of seed, embryo would have been more accurate, but seed sounds better.
498 Nature again.
499 The word used is yoni, which can also be translated as womb.
500 The three gunas or qualities.
501 Because this knowledge is not knowledge of the paramatman, nor is it happiness that comes from such supreme knowledge. Hence, there is attachment and that binds the atman. Some commentators have argued that the pure sattva quality involves supreme bliss and supreme knowledge. However, ordinarily sattva is mixed with rajas and tamas and that gives rise to attachment to happiness and knowledge that is less than supreme.
502 We have translated trishna as thirst, but it can also be translated as desire or greed. What is the difference be- tween thirst or desire, and attachment? One is attached to what one already possesses. And one is thirsty for or desirous of what one does not already possess.
503 The rajas quality.
504 The expression used is ‘occupier of the body’, meaning the atman.
505 The tamas quality.
506 Alternatively, inadvertence.
507 What is bound is not speciﬁed. But clearly, the atman is meant.
508 That is, rajas overcomes sattva and tamas and becomes strong. Similarly, tamas overcomes sattva and rajas and becomes strong. The point is that all three gunas are combined in every being. However, in every being, one of the gunas tends to dominate, compared to the other two.
509 As stated earlier, the nine gates of the body are two eyes, two ears, two nostrils, the mouth, the anus and the genital organ.
510 For other people’s possessions.
511 These beginnings of action are because of attachment to the fruits.
512 Pure or unsullied instead of shining is also possible.
513 That is, when tamas becomes strong.
514 That is how this is invariably interpreted. However, the Sanskrit original should literally be translated as species that is confused and ignorant. That is not necessarily subhuman.
515 That is, to heaven and among the gods.
516 The middle means the earth and among humans. Those with rajas, means those with a preponderance of rajas.
517 Below may mean hell, among the demons. It may also mean a lowly rebirth.
518 The realization that the atman is not an agent sinks in. Action is performed by the gunas or qualities of prakriti.
519 The subject is suppressed in the shloka and is a reference to someone who has transcended the three qualities. If sattva predominates, there is engagement in knowledge. If rajas predominates, there is engagement in inclina- tion (for action). And if tamas predominates, there is engagement in delusion. However, even if there is such en- gagement, the transcender doesn’t hate the happiness or unhappiness that results. And even if there is withdraw- al from such engagement, the transcender doesn’t desire the engagement or its fruit. He is completely detached.
520 That is, established in the atman.
521 As has been said before, beginnings of action are for speciﬁc gains, in this world or the next. Hence, someone who has renounced these is someone who has renounced all fruits.
522 There are two alternative interpretations, both of which are possible and make sense. First, the brahman is in- destructible and immortal. Second, ‘I’ am indestructible and immortal.
523 That is, I am the embodiment of eternal dharma and absolute bliss.
524 The ashvattha tree is the holy ﬁg tree. It has a root above, because the origin or root of the world is the brah- man. This comparison of the ashvattha tree with the world also occurs in the Upanishads. The subject of the sen- tence is left implicit. That is, we don’t know who is doing the saying. But obviously, ‘they’ stands for those who know the truth.
525 Metres mean the Vedas.
526 The interpretation is that these objects are those that gratify the ﬁve senses (sight, hearing, smelling, tasting and touching).
527 This should also be translated as roots, but is liable to cause confusion. The main root, the brahman, has al- ready been described as extending upwards. But this is a banyan tree, with additional rootlings descending to the ground. Since action and its fruits are secondary, rather than primary, there is a comparison with rootlings.
528 This world.
529 This tree’s form.
530 No rebirth.
531 The brahman.
532 The ﬁve senses (sight, hearing, smelling, tasting and touching) plus the mind add up to six.
533 Meaning ﬂowers.
534 The lord of the body or the jivatman.
535 The word ‘these’ is a continued reference to the six senses, or the ﬁve senses and the mind.
536 The jivatman.
537 The establishment and enjoyment in the present body and the progress to another body is also by the jivatman. And it is also the jivatman that has the qualities (gunas) as attributes.
538 Care or exertion in meditation.
539 The moon is believed to be watery and the source of all sap and juice, required to nourish plants and trees.
540 Prana is the breath of exhalation and apana is the breath of downward inhalation.
541 The four types of food are those that are chewed (charvya), sucked (choshya or chushya), licked (lehya) and drunk (peya).
542 That is, I am established in the intellect that gets to know the Vedas.
543 The destructible purusha.
544 The ﬁxed is the jivatman or the indestructible purusha.
545 The word used for the supreme being is purushottama.
546 The word used is loka, which can mean the world. But it can also mean among people. And in some interpreta- tions, the word is taken to mean the Puranas, because these are popular among all people.
547 Accomplishment of all that is prescribed. The implicit suggestion is that Arjuna should also become knowl- edgeable and accomplished.
548 This chapter explains the difference between divine and demonic tendencies.
549 Alternatively, resorting to the sattva quality.
550 Two possible interpretations are possible here. First, jnana yoga, or the path of knowledge. Second, jnana and yoga, that is the path of knowledge and the path of action or karma yoga, the word yoga being interpreted as karma yoga.
551 Of the senses.
552 Of the sacred texts like the Vedas. Or what has been called japa yajna earlier, that is, meditation.
553 Or uprightness.
554 Sense of shame because of evil action committed.
555 The sense is that one’s action in earlier lives determine birth so as to possess these divine attributes, character- istic of sattva qualities. Twenty-six attributes are listed in these three shlokas.
556 Inclination towards righteous action and disinclination or restraint from evil action.
557 This falsehood has also been interpreted as falsehood of sacred texts like the Vedas and the Puranas.
558 Without the basis of dharma and adharma. Dharma holds things up and is therefore the basis.
559 There is a slight problem of interpretation here. Instead of translating as without continuity, one can also say that the world is created through mutual union between men and women. In that case, the subsequent clause about satisfying desire will mean lust. The world is created because of lust and there is no other purpose. In the broader interpretation, desire is more than narrow lust. And creation has a continuity from the paramatman to the sky, from the sky to the wind, from the wind to ﬁre, from ﬁre to water, from water to the earth and so on. By emphasizing mutual union as the source of creation, this continuity is being negated.
560 Search of the untrue is interpreted as worship of various gods with different mantras. And some of these rites can be impure.
561 Time of destruction means the time of death and there is the conviction that no other objective except the satis- faction of desire exists. The thoughts are about desirable objects and the senses and these are immeasurable or uncountable.
562 These yajnas or donations are driven by the wrong motive of self-gratiﬁcation and therefore, don’t lead to liberation.
563 Demonic birth means birth into a subhuman species.
564 Because there is a hierarchy in subhuman species also. For example, insects will be lower than animals.
565 The sacred texts.
566 What ‘this’ means is not clear. It can certainly mean this world. It has also been interpreted as this arena of ac- tion. Finally, it has also been interpreted as this country of action, that is, India.
567 Implicitly, this discarding of the shastras is being done inadvertently, perhaps through ignorance or sloth. The reference is not to those who discard the shastras deliberately and consciously, as a mark of disrespect.
568 Or, those who sacriﬁce.
569 Any human being, the word used in the Sanskrit is purusha. A convoluted interpretation is possible, with the word purusha being taken to mean the supreme being. So the supreme being is full of faith and is manifested to humans depending on the kind of faith that human being possesses.
570 That is, worship yakshas and rakshas. The yakshas are semi-divine species, the rakshas can loosely be translat- ed as demons. Accounts of creation vary. In some accounts, some created beings tried to eat Brahma and these became the yakshas. Others tried to prevent these devourers and these came to be known as the rakshas. Accord- ing to other accounts, Brahma created water and then created beings. Some of these wanted to worship and these came to be known as yakshas. Others wanted to protect the water and came to be known as rakshas. But the gen- eral purport of the shloka is clear enough. Those of the rajas-type worship species that are less than divine.
571 Or spirits, the Sanskrit is pretas.
572 The class of devils or demons, bhutaganah.
573 Alternatively, possessed of desire, attachment and strength.
574 Inside the body as the atman.
575 The word used is sattva, which can also be translated as strength or steadfastness, instead of vitality. Alterna- tively, one can also translate this as food that increases the sattva quality.
576 Implying food that is cold.
577 Alternatively, this can be translated as food that is burnt.
578 Alternatively, food cooked the day before.
579 Or simply, leftover food.
580 The insolence results from a desire to establish one’s wealth, greatness or righteousness.
581 The word used is dvija and translating it as brahmana is indeed indicated. However, dvija means twice-born and thus applies to any of the ﬁrst three castes.
582 Ahimsa is invariably translated as non-violence. But it really means lack of injury towards others.
583 In places like the Manu Samhita, a reference is made to three kinds of speech—that which is true (satya), that which is pleasant (priya) and that which leads to welfare (hita). The moral dilemma is obvious. Does one speak the truth even if it does not lead to overall welfare? Both in the Manu Samhita and in the Mahabharata, the sug- gestion is that the truth shouldn’t be spoken if the truth doesn’t lead to overall welfare. However, the truth should be spoken even if it is unpleasant to hear.
584 The literal translation is only self-study. However, this is usually translated as study of the shastras or even more speciﬁcally, study of the Vedas.
585 This is interpreted as purity in behaviour towards others. A translation as purity of heart is also possible.
586 This means this world. So the fruits are temporary and uncertain in this world.
587 That is, without any ulterior motive.
588 Or will not beneﬁt the donor in the future. There is no quid pro quo.
589 The sacred texts indicate appropriate place, time and subject for donations.
590 That is, without fruits.
591 Krishna, thus named because he killed the demon Keshi.
592 Sannyasa (renunciation) and tyaga (relinquishing) may seem to have identical meanings. However, sannyasa is also the fourth stage (ashrama) of life, when one renounces action. But, earlier, the Gita hasn’t used the word sannyasa in this sense of asceticism and the word has been used more in the sense of tyaga.
593 That is, fruits resulting from the action. By relinquishing attachment is meant giving up a sense of ownership or ego in performing the action.
594 By indicated action is meant one’s own dharma or svadharma, which varies from person to person.
595 A tamas-type, that is, dark or evil kind of relinquishing.
596 Sannyasis don’t face such fruits of action. By a sannyasi is meant a person who relinquishes attachment and fruits, not one who relinquishes action.
597 The word sankhya is used in the Sanskrit. This may either mean sankhya philosophy speciﬁcally, or it may mean sacred texts like the Vedas in general.
598 This is a difﬁcult shloka to understand. The abode of any action is the human body. The agent is the ego or the ownership of the action. The different types of instrument are the senses and various types of endeavour are pranayama. All four are required for any action to take place. That leaves the divine element and this has been interpreted in various ways. First, this can mean divinities who rule over different parts of the body and different types of senses. Second, it can be the inﬂuence of the paramatman, working through the body. Third, it can be the residual element as a determinant of action, after all the other four have been accounted for. Fifth, it can be the effect of action performed in earlier births.
599 That is, action is due to these ﬁve determining causes.
600 Doesn’t see the truth.
601 Such a person is not tied down by the fruits of the action. The mention of killing dramatizes the point. And af- ter all, Arjuna is being addressed against the background of Arjuna refusing to kill his friends and relatives.
602 Because action requires a resolution that the action should take place and this involves knowledge, that which can be known and the knower. Without these three, the resolution will not materialize.
603 Meaning, sankhya philosophy. The three impetuses of knowledge, that which can be known and the knower have been cited. The action, the instrument and the agent have been cited as the base for action. Of these six, knowledge, action and the agent have been now singled out for detailed attention and the reason is clear. The knower is identiﬁed with the agent, that which can be known is identiﬁed with knowledge and the instrument isn’t independent either. That leaves the other three.
604 The brahman or the paramatman.
605 Without appreciating the whole.
606 Tamas-type knowledge.
607 Sattva-type action.
608 Injury to others and destruction of objects like wealth.
609 Avaricious towards objects owned by others and injurious towards others.
610 The word used is prakrita, which can also be translated as unreﬁned or illiterate.
611 This is interpretation rather than literal translation. Instead of disrespectful, it can also be a person who inhibits the actions of others.
612 That is, the intellect that knows the difference between these.
613 The opposite of what should actually be thought.
614 Meaning sleep.
615 Inadvertence about right action.
616 Prescribed actions or duties.
617 A more literal translation is lordliness or sovereignty.
618 The world or the universe.
619 One’s own dharma is svadharma. This can be translated as one’s own indicated course of action or duty. This meant varnashrama dharma, which meant that a person’s duty depended on his varna (caste) and his ashrama (stage of life).
620 Interpreted as controlling the senses or overcoming a sense of ego.
621 Sannyasa doesn’t mean giving up action. It means giving up attachment to action and fruits of action.
622 The word used is parigraha, which in this context, means the acceptance of possessions, such as in the form of donations from other people, to sustain physical life.
623 That is, enters me.
624 The Gita uses the words buddhi yoga and karma yoga synonymously. Sometimes, the word yoga is used instead.
625 Arjuna’s nature as a kshatriya.
626 In interpretations, the imagery used is of puppets on a string.
627 There is scope for interpretation in deciding what this discarding of all dharmas means. At an obvious level, these various dharmas mean those duties laid down in the shastras (sacred texts) and the injunction is to give up these rites and duties and adopt bhakti yoga instead. In more complicated interpretations, it is suggested that prakriti is subject to notions of dharma and adharma and purusha is beyond these. Therefore, the injunction is to immerse oneself in the brahman.
628 This knowledge and more generally, the knowledge of the Gita.
629 Also interpreted as those who do not follow their svadharma.
630 Than one who undertakes the task of explaining this knowledge.
631 The Gita again. Alternatively, this sacred dialogue, instead of dialogue on dharma.
632 The word used in Sanskrit is smriti, which we have translated as knowledge about that which should be done and that which shouldn’t be done. In an even more literal way, smriti can be translated as Arjuna having ob- tained his memory back.
633 Literally, a dialogue that makes one’s hair stand up.
634 On whichever side. SECTION SIXTY-FOUR: BHISHMA VADHA PARVA

--- Section 5 ---
--- Chapters 901(41) to 977(117) ---
1 That is, the maharathas on the Pandava side.
2 Kind of drum.
3 A krakacha is a saw. But it also means a teak tree and it is possible that here, it means some kind of musical in- strument made from teak trees.
4 Bhishma.
5 On the Pandava side.
6 Kripa.
7 The army of the Pandavas.
8 Yudhishthira.
9 Yudhishthira.
10 The word used is tata.
11 Because Bhishma cannot grant what Yudhishthira wishes.
12 When the time of death arrives.
13 The Critical edition doesn’t put this in quotes.
14 Because Drona cannot grant what Yudhishthira wishes.
15 The word used is tata.
16 Drona’s father was the sage Bharadvaja.
17 Kripa.
18 The Critical edition doesn’t explicitly have this within quotes. Before Drona’s arrival, Kripa used to be the preceptor.
19 Because Kripa cannot grant what Yudhishthira wishes.
20 Goutama is Kripa. The Critical edition doesn’t explicitly have this within quotes.
21 The Critical edition doesn’t explicitly have this within quotes.
22 Shalya’s sister was Madri, Nakula and Sahadeva’s mother.
23 Because Shalya cannot grant what Yudhishthira wishes.
24 Radha’s son, Karna.
25 Gada was Krishna’s younger brother.
26 Dhritarashtra’s son through a vaishya woman.
27 Pinda, to the ancestors.
28 Two different types of drums are named— dundubhi and pushkara.
29 Towards the Pandavas.
30 In the course of the war accounts, several of Duryodhana’s brothers are mentioned by name. There is a listing of Duryodhana’s brothers in Section 1 (Volume 1). However, the names of some of the minor brothers in the war accounts are at odds with that listing in Section 1 (Volume 1).
31 Bhurishrava.
32 Abhimanyu.
33 Bhishma.
34 For elephants, ankusha.
35 The Kurus.
36 Tree with red blossoms.
37 Brihadbala was the king of Kosala.
38 Parshni has different meanings. When four horses are attached to a chariot, it means one of the outside horses. It can also mean one of the two charioteers who drive the outside horses, as opposed to the main charioteer (sarathi), or someone who guards the axles. The context suggests Abhimanyu brought down a person, not a horse.
39 Duhshasana’s.
40 Yudhishthira.
41 Dhrishtadyumna’s body.
42 Virata’s eldest son.
43 Bhurishrava.
44 Shankha and Bhurishrava respectively.
45 The king of Chedi.
46 Angaraka is Mars and Budha is Mercury. Mars and Mercury are antagonistic planets.
47 Ghatotkacha was Bhima and Hidimba’s son and was a rakshasa. Alambusha was Rishyashringa’s son and was also a rakshasa, ﬁghting on the Kourava side.
48 Shukra is Venus. Mars and Venus are antagonistic planets.
49 Prativindhya, Sutasoma, Shrutakarma, Shatanika and Shrutasena were Droupadi’s sons, respectively born from Yudhishthira, Bhima, Arjuna, Nakula and Sahadeva.
50 Chekitana was the son of King Dhrishtaketu from Kekaya. Susharma was the king of Trigarta.
51 There is an error. Since this is Sahadeva’s son, this should actually read Shrutasena, not Shrutakarma.
52 Iravan was Arjuna’s son, through Ulupi. Shrutayusha was a rakshasa who fought on the Kourava side.
53 Uluka was Shakuni’s son.
54 Elephants should ﬁght with elephants, horses with horses, chariots with chariots, etc. But this was not observed.
55 Actually, wooden structures on the elephants, howdahs.
56 Bhindipala. Alternatively, short javelin.
57 Nistrimsha. Rishti and nistrimsha are both swords. We have used cutlass for nistrimsha only to distinguish it from rishti.
58 That is, other relatives.
59 Bhishma.
60 Of enemies.
61 Tree, the Indian laburnum.
62 The ﬁve who were protecting Bhishma.
63 Bhishma’s standard.
64 Krishna is also one of Arjuna’s names and Abhimanyu was Arjuna’s son.
65 Bhishma’s standard.
66 Dhrishtadyumna.
67 Shalya.
68 Uttara’s.
69 He lost his senses.
70 The Critical edition abruptly excises some shlokas here, so that we never get to know who these seven were, or their subsequent bouts. They were Brihadbala, Jayatsena, Rukmaratha, Vinda, Anuvinda, Sudakshina and Jayadratha.
71 The energies of Bhishma and Arjuna.
72 Bibhatsu is Arjuna’s name.
73 Bhishma.
74 Arjuna.
75 A vyuha is the arrangement of troops in battle formation.
76 Krouncha is a curlew or osprey. So this vyuha was in the form of a bird.
77 Arjuna’s.
78 The text uses the name Puruhuta. Puruhuta is one of Indra’s names and means one who is worshipped by many.
79 In this context, by Indra’s weapon, one means Indra’s bow. The rainbow is described as Indra’s bow. Hence, the standard had the complexion of a rainbow.
80 Brahma.
81 Of the bird.
82 This is Naakulas, not to be confused with the Pandava Nakula.
83 The king of Chedi.
84 One of Karna’s sons.
85 Vikarna, Nanda and Upanandaka are Duryodhana’s brothers.
86 Not to be confused with Chitrasena, the king of the gandharvas.
87 Drona.
88 Not to be confused with Karna.
89 Not to be confused with Vikarna.
90 Bheri, peshi and anaka are the names of different kinds of drums.
91 Meaning Drupada.
92 Abhimanyu.
93 Satyaki.
94 Of the Pandavas.
95 Krishna.
96 This is a description of Arjuna’s chariot.
97 Jayadratha.
98 Karna.
99 Kiriti is one of Arjuna’s names.
100 Another name for Shalya.
101 Duryodhana.
102 Gangeya is another name for Bhishma.
103 Dhrishtadyumna.
104 The word used is tata. While this means father, it is affectionately used for anyone who is senior.
105 Bhishma.
106 Ashvatthama.
107 The sense is that it was impossible to distinguish between Bhishma and Arjuna, except through the signs on the respective standards.
108 Dhrishtadyumna.
109 Dhrishtadyumna’s.
110 Drona.
111 Dhrishtadyumna.
112 Bhima.
113 Shrutayu was the king of Kalinga.
114 The few were those on Bhima’s side. The many were the Kalingas and the Nishadas.
115 The text uses the word shaikyayasa. This should be translated as steel. However, it is also possible to break up the word into shaikya and ayasa and thus translate it as sharp iron.
116 Shrutayu was the king of Kalinga and his sons were Bhanuman, Shakradeva and Ketuman.
117 Bhanuman’s elephant.
118 Of elephants.
119 The Critical edition probably has a typo here. It should probably read Bhima rather than Bhishma.
120 Bhima had earlier lost his chariot. Ashoka or Vishoka was the name of Bhima’s charioteer.
121 The text states khadga and rishti. These are different types of swords. A rishti is not quite a scimitar, but we have used that term to distinguish between the two different types of swords.
122 We have corrected this typo, since it doesn’t make sense otherwise. The text says Bhishma.
123 The king of Panchala is Drupada. However, the reference here is to Dhrishtadyumna.
124 Satyaki.
125 The text uses the word shaikyayasa. This should be translated as steel. However, it is also possible to break up the word into shaikya and ayasa and thus translate it as sharp iron.
126 Referring to Dhrishtadyumna.
127 Both Abhimanyu and Lakshmana were Dhritarashtra’s grandsons. Abhimanyu was the son of Arjuna and Sub- hadra. Lakshmana was the son of Duryodhana and Bhanumati.
128 Abhimanyu’s.
129 Arjuna’s.
130 The mountain over which the sun sets.
131 Ghatotkacha.
132 Referring to Arjuna.
133 A triﬂe inaccurately, we have translated gotra as family name. Since nothing could be seen, the identities of the two sides had to be determined on the basis of such indications.
134 Unidentiﬁed weapon that makes the enemy tremble.
135 A kind of lance.
136 Varshneya means someone of the Vrishni lineage. In this context, it is being used for Satyaki.
137 Ghatotkacha.
138 Satyaki and Abhimanyu respectively.
139 Duryodhana is addressing both Bhishma and Drona now.
140 Krishna.
141 Krishna is also one of Arjuna’s names.
142 Krishna.
143 There were two Shrutayus, one was the king of Kalinga and the other one was the king of Ambashtha. Am- bashtha was located in the area of the Punjab.
144 Krishna.
145 The text uses the word rathanga. This can mean the wheel of a chariot, or it can mean a chakra. Krishna could have been referring to the sudarshana chakra, or to the more mundane wheel of the chariot. Either translation is correct.
146 Yudhishthira.
147 Nakula and Sahadeva.
148 The original lotus is the lotus at the time of creation, which emerged from Vishnu’s navel.
149 Since Kuru was a common ancestor, the Pandavas can also be referred to as the Kouravas. This is presumably a reference to Arjuna, but can also be a reference to Yudhishthira.
150 Duryodhana.
151 The word used in the text is dhumaketu. The natural meaning for this is comet or meteor. But the word also means ﬁre and ﬁre seems more appropriate, given that dry wood or grass is referred to.
152 River that separates the world of the living from the world of the dead.
153 Belonging to the enemy.
154 This is being addressed to Duryodhana.
155 Arjuna had an ape on his standard.
156 Karshni means a descendant of Krishna. This is Abhimanyu. Hence, the Krishna in question is Arjuna.
157 Released by Bhishma.
158 In what follows, the warrior seems to be Shala and not Chitrasena.
159 Samyamani is another name for Shala.
160 The Krishna here is Arjuna and Krishna’s son is Abhimanyu.
161 Bhurishrava.
162 Kripa.
163 Of Samayamani’s son.
164 Parshnis. Parshni has different meanings. When four horses are attached to a chariot, it means one of the out- side horses. It can also mean one of the two charioteers who drive the outside horses, as opposed to the main charioteer (sarathi), or someone who guards the axles.
165 The word Panchala is being used both for Drupada and for his son, Dhrishtadyumna.
166 The word used is tata.
167 There were ten charioteers on the Kourava side and ten on the Pandava side.
168 Shalya was Madri’s brother.
169 Against Bhima.
170 Four types of arrows are mentioned here—kshuras (with tips like razors), kshurapras (arrows with sharp edges), bhallas (arrows with broad heads) and anjalikas (with heads shaped like crescents).
171 Indra’s elephant.
172 Shiva’s name is Pinaki and the name of his trident or bow is Pinaka.
173 Shiva.
174 Bhima.
175 The text uses the word shaikyayasa. This should be translated as steel. However, it is also possible to break up the word into shaikya and ayasa and thus translate it as sharp iron.
176 The exception being Alambusa, or more likely, Bhurishrava.
177 The word Kourava is being used because Bhurishrava was on the Kourava side.
178 Bhima’s charioteer.
179 Duryodhana.
180 Duryodhana.
181 Not to be confused with Pandava Bhima.
182 Only seven sons are directly mentioned as having been killed. However, all fourteen were killed by Bhima.
183 Bhima was struck and lost his senses.
184 There are eight elephants who guard the eight directions—Airavata, Pundarika, Vamana, Kumuda, Anjana, Pushpadanta, Sarvabhouma and Supratika. Airavata is also regarded as the king of elephants and is Indra’s mount. Mahapadma is another name for either Pundarika or Kumuda.
185 Bhagadatta’s elephant.
186 Referring to Bhagadatta.
187 The word used is tata.
188 Kimpaka is a pretty but bitter fruit, probably of the Trichosanthes variety.
189 Kritavarma was the son of Hridika.
190 The word used is tata.
191 Sharnga is the name of Krishna’s bow, made out of horn.
192 Brahma.
193 Brahma.
194 Balarama.
195 Pradyumna is the son of Krishna and Rukmini. Aniruddha is Pradyumna’s son and Krishna’s grandson.
196 Aniruddha as part of Vishnu and not as Pradyumna’s son.
197 The word used is tata.
198 Tat means that. Aum Tat Sat is an expression used in the context of the brahman. Aum stands for the brahman. Tat means that. Sat means the absolute truth. Hence, Aum Tat Sat means the brahman is the absolute truth. One should also mention the expression Tat Tvam Asi, an expression that features in the Upanishads. Tvam means ‘you’ and Asi means ‘are’. Therefore, Tat Tvam Asi means that you are the brahman.
199 Vishnu bears the srivatsa mark (or curl) on his chest. This is the place where Lakshmi resides.
200 Vishnu’s jewel that emerged from the churning of the ocean.
201 The word used is tata.
202 However, at the time when this is being said, the present kali yuga has not yet started.
203 Dawn and dusk.
204 The earth rests on the serpent Shesha.
205 Madhusudana means the destroyer of Madhu.
206 These are respective references to Vishnu’s varaha (boar), narasimha (man-lion) and vamana (dwarf) incarnations.
207 Hrishikesha means the lord of the senses.
208 A makara is a mythical aquatic animal and makara can loosely be translated as shark or crocodile.
209 Hawk.
210 Nakula and Sahadeva.
211 The name of Krishna’s conch shell.
212 Referring to Arjuna’s standard.
213 In the Mahabharata, Shaivya was the king of Govasana. In the Puranas, Govasana is given as the name of a king, and his daughter, Youdheyi, was married to Yudhishthira.
214 A gopa is a herdsman or cowherd. Govasana can be translated as a region where cattle reside.
215 There is an inconsistency, because the Kalingas have already been destroyed by Bhima and the king of Kalinga has been killed.
216 The king of elephants is Airavata.
217 Uluka was Shakuni’s son.
218 Of the Kouravas.
219 Satyaki is being referred to as Varshneya.
220 Yuyudhana is Satyaki’s name.
221 The word used is aryas.
222 Ashvatthama.
223 Bhishma.
224 Arjuna and Krishna.
225 Subhadra belonged to the Yadava lineage and is being referred to as Satvati. Lakshmana was Duryodhana’s son.
226 Kripa.
227 Bhurishrava.
228 Indra’s weapon is the rainbow.
229 Bhurishrava had a sacriﬁcial stake on his standard.
230 Bhurishrava was the son of Somadatta and Somadatta was descended from Pratipa, who was also the ancestor of the Pandavas and the Kouravas.
231 Satyaki.
232 The krouncha bird.
233 Susharma was the king of Trigarta and the capital of Trigarta was Prasthala.
234 The imagery seems to be that of a beautiful woman whose pride has been hurt.
235 The word used is tata.
236 For war.
237 Not to be confused with the famous Karna, who was not ﬁghting at this stage.
238 He had been ﬁghting with Drona.
239 That is, the Kourava army.
240 Dhrishtadyumna.
241 A divine weapon that causes loss of consciousness.
242 The enmity between Drona and Drupada doesn’t quite explain why Drupada should ﬂee. Drupada probably re- membered that Dhrishtadyumna had been born so that Drona might be killed.
243 Prajna means wisdom or intelligence. Mohana and pramohana have the same meaning.
244 The ﬁve Kekaya princes, ﬁve of Droupadi’s sons, Dhrishtaketu and Abhimanyu—these were the twelve.
245 The mouth of a needle.
246 Dhrishtadyumna had studied under Drona.
247 Duryodhana.
248 Yama’s.
249 Small arrow.
250 Arjuna is being referred to as Krishna here.
251 A reference to Krishna’s mission of peace.
252 Duryodhana’s.
253 The names of Droupadi’s sons were Prativindhya (through Yudhishthira), Sutasoma (through Bhima), Shru- takarma (through Arjuna), Shatanika (through Nakula) and Shrutasena (through Sahadeva).
254 Shrutakarma.
255 Shrutakirti is another name for Shrutakarma.
256 Referring to Jayatsena.
257 The text is such that it can also be translated as ‘slain’, but smitten is indicated. There are two reasons why slain can’t be right. First, Dushkarna wasn’t killed and surfaces again in Drona Parva. Second, Duryodhana and all his brothers were killed by Bhima.
258 The ﬁrst yuga means satya or krita yuga.
259 A herb with wonderful healing properties. Literally, something that removes pain.
260 Duryodhana.
261 Mandala means circular.
262 Iravat or Iravan was the son of Arjuna and the naga princess Ulupi.
263 Kritavarma.
264 Abhimanyu.
265 Ghatotkacha and Bhagadatta respectively.
266 Equivalently, Shrutayush.
267 Divine missile named after Indra.
268 The king of Trigarta.
269 White planet probably means Venus, but it can also signify the moon.
270 Shankha was Virata’s son.
271 Meaning Satyaki.
272 Satyaki studied the art of war from Arjuna.
273 Indra.
274 Dhrishtadyumna was the overall commander of the Pandava army.
275 Vrishaka and Achala were the sons of the king of Gandhara (Subala) and were thus brothers to Shakuni and brothers-in-law to Dhritarashtra.
276 Succeeding sentences show that this means Anuvinda’s horses.
277 Famous battle that took place between the gods and the demons. This is sometimes described to have been over Tara (Brihaspati’s wife) and sometimes described to have been over Taraka (a demon).
278 Bhagadatta.
279 Namuchi was a demon killed by Indra.
280 Bhagadatta.
281 He was proud, because they were his sister’s sons.
282 Shalya.
283 Nakula.
284 Indra’s younger brother, Vishnu.
285 Parshnis.
286 Chekitana.
287 Bhurishrava.
288 These can be loosely translated as wind, bile and phlegm. In Ayurveda, these are the three doshas or humours in the body and they are always striving against each other.
289 Bhima had taken an oath that he would kill Duryodhana and his brothers.
290 There is an inconsistency between the number of thirty-two and sixty.
291 The Pandava warriors.
292 It had been agreed that Yudhishthira would kill Shalya.
293 That of the Pandavas.
294 Shalya’s weapons.
295 Aratta is a distant kingdom. It is difﬁcult to pinpoint its precise location, though it ﬁgures prominently in Sumerian literature.
296 Later sentences identify this son as Chitrasena.
297 Of avoiding the club.
298 Yudhishthira.
299 Earlier, Shikhandi had been the lady Amba.
300 It was afternoon and the sun was in the western sky.
301 Mountain behind which the sun sets.
302 From the wounds.
303 Meaning that it had cusps or horns.
304 The word used is shatahrada. Literally, this means something with a hundred rays of light.
305 The land of the dead.
306 Meaning the soldiers on the Kourava side.
307 The text says Pandita. But Pandita is the same as Panditaka.
308 The promise that he would kill Duryodhana and his brothers.
309 Vidura.
310 The word used is tata.
311 The word used is tata.
312 Kritavarma.
313 Garuda.
314 Bestowed on Arjuna. Her father Kouravya was the king of the nagas and was descended from Airavata. Thus, Kouravya can also be referred to as Airavata. The story has been recounted in Section 16 (Volume 2).
315 Meaning another person’s wife.
316 This is left dangling It is probably a reference to the naga Takshaka, who bore an animosity towards Arjuna be- cause of the destruction of nagas in Khandava.
317 The names of Shakuni’s six brothers. Their father was Subala.
318 Referring to Iravat’s army.
319 Vrishaka was the only one of Subala’s sons who survived.
320 Rishyashringa was a famous sage.
321 Bhima had killed a rakshasa named Baka.
322 The word used is tata.
323 Bhogavati is the capital of the nagas and Bhogavat can mean any of the serpents residing there. But it is proba- bly a reference to Ananta.
324 Garuda.
325 Satyaki.
326 Ghatotkacha.
327 Ghatotkacha.
328 The lower lip.
329 Indra killed a demon named Bala.
330 Although described as the lord of Vanga, this is Bhagadatta.
331 Bhishma is addressing others too.
332 It is not clear which of the two from Avanti is meant.
333 Garuda.
334 The word used is tata.
335 Fighting with the enemy and protecting Ghatotkacha.
336 Of the ﬁghters.
337 Mountains are believed to possess wings, until Indra lopped them off. Mount Mainaka was the only one which escaped.
338 Obviously, on the Kourava side.
339 This actually means Ashvatthama, the word son being used in a loose sense.
340 Viprachitti was a famous demon and was the son of Kashyapa and Danu. Kashyapa and Danu had 100 sons and Viprachitti is described as the most powerful of the lot.
341 Nila’s.
342 Some non-critical versions mention the charioteer too. In that event, we have a tally for the seven arrows—four for the horses, one for the charioteer, one for the standard and one for Nila.
343 All of this was the outcome of an illusion and wasn’t real. But the Kourava soldiers didn’t see it that way.
344 Sanjaya saying this is unusual. However, the text allows for no other translation.
345 However, there was no reason for Bhishma not to have known that. This is really a prelude to what follows.
346 The word used is tata.
347 However, Indra was actually vanquished by Taraka.
348 Supratika was the name of Bhagadatta’s elephant.
349 Bhagadatta’s.
350 This ﬁre is called samvartaka and appears at the time of the dissolution of the universe.
351 Both Vyudoraska and Kundalina are Duryodhana’s brothers.
352 Unidentiﬁed weapon that could kill one hundred people at one go.
353 The word used is tata, used not just for father, but anyone who is senior. In this context, ‘father’ is singularly inappropriate. But we have stuck to it for the sake of consistency.
354 The implicit sense seems to be that if Bhishma defeats the Pandavas, the encounter will be over. Hence, Bhish- ma is unnecessarily prolonging it.
355 Rubia manjith, the Indian madder.
356 That the Pandavas are invincible.
357 The story of Amba becoming Shikhandi has been recounted in Section 60.
358 Bhishma.
359 Referring to Bhishma’s vow of celibacy, so that Shantanu could marry Satyavati.
360 The word used is tata.
361 On the Kourava side.
362 Bhishma.
363 Literally, something that is fortunate in every direction. Probably in the form of a square.
364 Arjuna.
365 Shatahrada.
366 Maya was a famous danava. He was also the architect of the demons.
367 Arjuna is also named Krishna.
368 There are various demons named Shambara. This is the one whom Indra defeated to obtain soma.
369 Abhimanyu.
370 Bhaskara means the sun, or something that brings light.
371 Arjuna and Krishna respectively.
372 Abhimanyu.
373 Rahu.
374 Satyaki.
375 Descended from the Vrishni lineage. In this context, Satyaki.
376 Mercury and Venus respectively.
377 Drona.
378 Drona.
379 Drona and Susharma.
380 As an adjective, shaila means something that is made out of stone.
381 Three arrows for Dhrishtadyumna, Drupada and Virata. He did not touch Shikhandi.
382 Kubera.
383 Of slain combatants.
384 Bahlika is the name of a kingdom, rather than of a speciﬁc king. Pratipa had three sons, Devapi, Bahlika and Shantanu. Shantanu became a king because his elder brothers, Devapi and Bahlika could not, or did not. This passage suggests that the Bahlika who took part in the war was Shantanu’s elder brother and was thus Bhima’s great-grandfather. Given the age, this seems unlikely. Somadatta, Bhurishrava and Shala were descended from this Bahlika and they are more likely candidates as the Bahlika who took part in the war.
385 Mercury and Saturn respectively.
386 Bhishma.
387 Satyaki.
388 The Pandava warriors.
389 Noon had passed and the sun was in the western horizon.
390 Satyaki.
391 The chariots.
392 The Pandavas.
393 Krishna’s.
394 The sun.
395 Krishnaa, Droupadi.
396 Of the life.
397 Referring to the matrimonial alliance through Subhadra.
398 The word used is tata.
399 Ganga goes to the ocean.
400 Though not explicitly stated, this is Yudhishthira speaking now.
401 It is not immediately obvious what this means. It probably means that everyone knows that Bhishma will not ﬁght with Shikhandi.
402 Shikhandi.
403 Indra is a title and there have been earlier Indras. The present one is Purandara. But having said this, it is difﬁ- cult to make sense of the text. No earlier Indra is associated with any of the Bhishma stories. It is possible that this is an oblique reference to Arjuna being Indra’s son. In all probability, this is a typo, since non-critical ver- sions don’t have this expression.
404 It is not clear which of the ﬁve are meant, unless it means the ﬁve Pandava brothers.
405 A vatsadanta is an arrow that has a head like the tooth of a calf.
406 A ﬁre.
407 Unwilling to ﬁght.
408 That is, the lady.
409 Bhishma’s.
410 The word used is tata.
411 Duhshasana.
412 Satyaki.
413 Duryodhana.
414 Kripa.
415 In this context, Varshneya means Hardikya Kritavarma, descended from the Vrishni lineage, while Parshata means Dhrishtadyumna.
416 In ﬁghting against the demon Taraka, Skanda (Kartikeya) hurled a javelin at Mount Krouncha, within which, Taraka was hiding.
417 This seems to be a reference to Duhshasana.
418 On the Pandava side.
419 In astrology, parigha is an inauspicious yoga or conjunction of the stars, signifying obstructions.
420 Shikhandi. Yajnasena is Drupada’s name.
421 Ganga.
422 Yudhishthira.
423 Yudhishthira.
424 Indra’s younger brother, Vishnu. This is a description of Abhimanyu.
425 This is probably a reference to Dhrishtadyumna. Shikhandi is also possible, but unlikely.
426 Bhima’s charioteer.
427 Duryodhana.
428 The Pandavas are being included as part of the Kouravas.
429 As to which side would be victorious.
430 The word used is tata.
431 Jayadratha was Vriddhakshatra’s son.
432 Dhrishtadyumna.
433 Dhrishtaketu.
434 The only Susharma we know of is the king of the Trigartas. He fought on the Kourava side and Chitrasena is Duryodhana’s brother. Clearly, this must be some other Susharma, ﬁghting on the Pandava side. However, no such other Susharma has ever been mentioned. Therefore, these shlokas have probably just been thrown in. In any event, they are irrelevant.
435 Dhrishtadyumna.
436 Shikhandi. However, there was no reason for Shikhandi not to understand, since Bhishma had already men- tioned the reason.
437 Duryodhana.
438 On Bhishma’s standard.
439 Dhrishtadyumna.
440 The word used is tata.
441 Parashurama.
442 The Susharma on the Pandava side mentioned earlier.
443 Bhishma’s followers.
444 The army.
445 Bhishma.
446 Shatahrada.
447 Krishna’s name.
448 Because they are protected by Krishna.
449 This Kali is Satyavati. When Shantanu married Satyavati, Bhishma took a vow that he would remain celibate and would not marry. That is the reason Shantanu granted him a boon.
450 Vyasadeva had conferred those powers on Sanjaya.
451 There is an anomaly here. The Critical edition excises some intervening shlokas, where Bhishma had counter- attacked. Since he had decided to die, the counter-attack is incongruous. However, without the counter-attack, there shouldn’t have been a bow in Bhishma’s hand. It had already been severed. The subsequent shlokas, with Bhishma taking up more bows, should also be excised.
452 Magha spans January and February and is thus a wintry month.
453 Arjuna.
454 Arjuna.
455 The east, the west and the north are not being counted.
456 For his death.
457 Dakshinayana is when the sun follows its southern course, from mid-July to mid-January. Uttarayana is when the sun follows its northern course, from mid-January to mid-July.
458 Sacred lake near Mount Kailasa (Kailasha), in Tibet.
459 Middle because Bhishma represented a bridge between the earlier generation of the Kurus and the current generation.
460 To ensure Bhishma’s protection.
461 From continuing with the ﬁght.
462 The word used is tata.
463 In this context, Vaishravana is Yama and Yama’s direction is that of the south.
464 Of being tended to by phyisicans and surgeons.
465 The sun.
466 The Kurus and the Pandavas temporarily cast aside their enmity.
467 Brahma.
468 The word used is tata, in the singular. The water was presumably brought by Duryodhana.
469 Parashurama.
470 All of these are named after different gods.
471 The word used is tata.
472 Kartikeya was born in a clump of reeds.
473 Karna’s name.
474 Vedavyasa.
475 The word used is tata.
476 The word used is tata. SECTION SIXTY-FIVE: DRONABHISHEKA PARVA

--- Section 6 ---
--- Chapters 978(1) to 992(15) ---
1 We will use the words killed or slain, though Bhishma had not yet died.
2 Duryodhana.
3 Dhritarashtra.
4 Sanjaya.
5 The word used is tata.
6 Speciﬁcally, a woman with beautiful hips.
7 This incident has been recounted in Section 59 (Volume 4).
8 Twice a ratha.
9 Parashurama.
10 Sanjaya.
11 Vrisha is Karna’s name.
12 There is a pun that can’t be captured in the English. Vasu means riches or prosperity and the earth is Vasundhara, the store of riches.
13 Heading towards death.
14 Meaning the Pandavas.
15 Without speciﬁcally naming anyone, Karna is clearly casting aspersions on some on the Kourava side.
16 Bhishma.
17 Arjuna.
18 The one with three eyes, Mahadeva. This encounter has been described in Section 31 (Volume 2).
19 Indra has a thousand eyes.
20 Rajapura was the capital of the Kamboja kingdom. On Duryodhana’s behalf, Karna led an expedition there.
21 Girivraja (Rajagriha or Rajgir) was the capital of Magadha and is now in Bihar.
22 The word used is tata.
23 This may be an allusion to Karna being Kunti’s son.
24 Respectively, Shukra (the preceptor of the demons) and Brihaspati (the preceptor of the gods, referred to as Angiras).
25 In the singular, Rudra is used as a name for Shiva. In the plural, the Rudras are eleven in number. When the eleven Rudras are mentioned by name, Kapali is one of the names. However, Kapali is also one of Shiva’s names. There are eight Vasus and Agni is mentioned as the ﬁrst one. Pavaka is a name for Agni. Kubera is the lord of the yakshas and the Maruts are wind gods who follow Indra (Vasava). In the context of the ancestors, Dharma means Yama. While the Adityas are gods in general, their number is sometimes said to be seven or twelve and Varuna (king of the waters) ﬁgures prominently. The sons of Diti are daityas or demons and their preceptor is Shukra (Ushanas).
26 Pavaka is Agni and by Agni’s son, one means Kartikeya.
27 The six vedangas are shiksha (articulation and pronunciation), chhanda (prosody), vyakarana (grammar), nirukta (etymology), jyotisha (astronomy) and kalpa (rituals).
28 Shakata, meaning carriage or cart. The array was probably in the form of a wedge.
29 Krouncha, curlew or osprey.
30 Krishna.
31 Kakuda, which means hump. The suggestion is that this standard was the centre of the army.
32 Krishna, Arjuna, Gandiva and Sudarshana.
33 Meaning the Kourava soldiers.
34 The left side is inauspicious.
35 Drona.
36 Drona.
37 Yajnasena is Drupada and by Drupada’s son, one means Dhrishtadyumna here. Prishata is also one of Drupada’s names and Dhrishtadyumna is Parshata.
38 More accurately, a circle made out of ﬁrebrands.
39 Drona was born from a pot.
40 The word used is tata.
41 Usually, ﬁve types of weapons are mentioned—mukta (those that are released from the hand, like a chakra), amukta (those that are never released, like a sword), muktamukta (those that can be released or not released, like a spear), yantramukta (those that are released from an implement, like an arrow) and mantramukta (magical weapons unleashed with incantations). These are categories of weapons. Alternatively, especially for magical and celestial weapons, there are the ﬁve techniques of employing, restraining, returning, pacifying and counter- acting. However, Dhanurveda (the art of war) is usually described as having four parts. In the category-wise classiﬁcation, this means that mantramukta weapons are not included.
42 Bearing the chariot.
43 Itihasa–Purana, the epics and the Purana literature, are referred to as the ﬁfth Veda.
44 Though not explicitly stated, this is Dhritarashtra speaking.
45 That is, a female elephant. The imagery is of elephants ﬁghting over a she-elephant.
46 Duryodhana’s.
47 Satyaki.
48 Parashurama’s.
49 Satyaki.
50 The gate to the mountains may be a reference to Girivraja.
51 Actually meaning the state of Duryodhana’s mind.
52 The mother in question is Kunti. Kunti’s sister was Shrutakirti and she was married to the Kekaya king, Dhrishtaketu.
53 This is a reference to Dhrishtadyumna.
54 Ushinara’s son is Shibi. But son is being used in an extended sense here, meaning grandson. The person in ques- tion is Shaibya, Shibi’s son and Ushinara’s grandson.
55 Ghatotkacha grew up in a single day.
56 This is the demon Keshi, sent by Kamsa to kill Krishna. Keshi adopted the form of a horse. Having killed Keshi, Krishna came to be known as Keshava.
57 Arishtasura, also sent by Kamsa to kill Krishna.
58 That is, without using any weapons.
59 The wife in question is Rukmini. There is a story about Durvasa visiting Krishna and Rukmini and their wor- shipping him with rice and milk. Durvasa asked Krishna to smear the remnants all over his body. Krishna did this, leaving out the feet. Durvasa granted Krishna the boon that he would not be killed through any part of the body that had been smeared with the remaining rice and milk.
60 Satyabhama was the princess of Gandhara.
61 Jarasandha was killed by Bhima, but Bhima was instigated by Krishna. The incident has been described in Sec- tion 22 (Volume 2).
62 The king of Chedi is Shishupala. The incident has been described in Section 25 (Volume 2).
63 This has been described in Section 31 (Volume 2).
64 Nanda (Krishna’s foster-father) was abducted by Varuna’s servants and rescued by Krishna and Balarama.
65 The sage Sandipani was Krishna’s teacher and Sandipani’s son was abducted by the demon Panchajana. Krishna killed Panchajana the conch shell Panchajanya was made out of Panchajana’s bones.
66 Sudarshana chakra.
67 Vinata’s son is Garuda and Amaravati is Indra’s capital.
68 This is a reference to Krishna manifesting his own self. The incident has been described in Section 54 (Volume 4).
69 Balarama. However, Balarama decided to remain neutral and went away on a pilgrimage.
70 The word used is tata.
71 Having been born as men, they resort to human means alone.
72 Ajatashatru is Yudhishthira’s name and means someone who has no enemies.
73 Yudhishthira.
74 The word used is tata.
75 Drona.
76 Sahadeva’s.
77 Bhima.
78 Kripa.
79 Kritavarma.
80 Susharma.
81 Shikhandi.
82 Hiranyaksha was slain by Vishnu in his varaha (boar) incarnation and the battle between the two lasted for one thousand years.
83 Kritavarma.
84 Garuda.
85 Krishna means Arjuna in this context.
86 Jayadratha.
87 The text mentions three speciﬁc techniques of ﬁghting with the sword—sampata, abhipata and nipata. Loosely, these can be translated as whirling, striking and descending.
88 Shalya.
89 Yama.
90 Obviously, he had picked up another club.
91 On the Pandava side.
92 Garuda.
93 Yudhishthira’s.
94 Drona.
95 After having captured Yudhishthira.
96 The two acts. SECTION SIXTY-SIX: SAMSHAPTAKA VADHA PARVA

--- Section 7 ---
--- Chapters 993(16) to 1007(30) ---
1 This is happening on the eve of the next day’s battle.
2 Yudhishthira.
3 Before Duryodhana.
4 Prasthala is the capital of Trigarta.
5 In the hereafter.
6 A royal grant is given in the expectation of a quid pro quo. Stealing means violating the conditions of the grant.
7 Those worlds.
8 Literally translated, the text means the region inhabited by the ancestors. This is the southern direction.
9 The word used is tata.
10 Susharma.
11 This is a reference to the incidents recounted in Section 49 (Volume 4), when both Duryodhana and Arjuna had solicited Krishna’s help. Arjuna had opted for the unarmed Krishna and Duryodhana for the cowherds known as Narayana soldiers. The Narayana soldiers are partly being equated with the samshaptakas.
12 That is, many different forms of Krishna and Arjuna appeared.
13 Vayavya is a divine weapon named after Vayu, the wind god.
14 Such as at dawn.
15 Implying that they were about to die.
16 The text uses the word Suparna, which is the same as Garuda.
17 Kripa.
18 The Kalingas were divided into various segments.
19 As with the Kalingas, there is repetition here too.
20 That is, they were prepared to die.
21 Bhagadatta.
22 The third of the twenty-seven nakshatras, Pleiades.
23 Bhagadatta.
24 They are white.
25 Dhrishtadyumna was destined to kill Drona.
26 The word used is ekachara. The elephants were solitary, as if they had lost their herds. Ekachara also means a rhinoceros. Therefore, an alternative translation is also possible. The elephants wandered around, like rhinos.
27 The enemy.
28 They lost their standards and the signs of belonging to speciﬁc divisions.
29 Virochana’s son was Bali.
30 Drona.
31 The river.
32 The severed arms of warriors.
33 Along the banks of the river.
34 Because he did not stay to ﬁght.
35 This particular Panchala is not named.
36 The Pandavas.
37 The Kouravas surrounded the Pandavas.
38 Before the gambling match, Duryodhana had tried poisoning and arson.
39 Bhima will also use horses, elephants, men and chariots as implements of war.
40 Meaning the Pandavas.
41 The horses were dappled.
42 Satyaki.
43 Yudhishthira.
44 Virata.
45 Patala is a kind of rose or the trumpet-ﬂower. The complexion is reddish pink.
46 Uttara.
47 Showered arrows.
48 Prativindhya was Yudhishthira’s son, Sutasoma Bhima’s, Shrutakarma Arjuna’s, Shatanika Nakula’s and Shru- tasena Sahadeva’s. All ﬁve were Droupadi’s sons.
49 This Partha is Bhima. Dhoumya was priest to the Pandavas. He encouraged them to participate in Droupadi’s svayamvara and was also the priest when each of the ﬁve Pandavas were married to Droupadi. Having said this, there is no particular reason to single out Dhoumya for Sutasoma.
50 Masha is wild bean and the colour of the ﬂowers is whitish yellow.
51 The text uses the word somasa. That is, Sutasoma was born in the midst of the Somasas. Some non-critical ver- sions say Somakas. We have interpreted Somasas as those of the lunar lineage, since all the Bharatas were born in the lunar dynasty. Sutasoma literally means the son of Soma (the moon) and Udayendu means the rising moon. There is some problem with the text in this segment.
52 Shrutakirti is the same as Shrutakarma. This should probably read Shrutasena.
53 Depending on whether this is Shrutakarma or Shrutasena, the Partha in question is Arjuna or Sahadeva.
54 Dhrishtadyumna would kill Drona.
55 The text is such that this can be translated as Vaishravana (Vishrava’s son) Yama or Yama and Vaishravana (Kubera).
56 Kuntibhoja was Kunti’s father and Purujit was Kuntibhoja’s son. By extension, Purujit is also being referred to as Kuntibhoja, since he was Kuntibhoja’s son. As Kunti’s brother, Purujit was Arjuna’s maternal uncle.
57 Meaning Indra’s bow, that is, the rainbow.
58 Not to be confused with the more famous Janamejaya who was Parikshit’s son and to whom, the story of the Mahabharata is being told.
59 It is by no means obvious that this Panchala means Drupada. Drupada has already been mentioned and this could be anyone from Panchala.
60 The medicinal herb Ailanthus excelsa.
61 Some of the Kekayas were opposed to Duryodhana.
62 The word used is tata.
63 Vidura.
64 In the sense of a metaphor.
65 Bhima.
66 This entire chapter has inconsistencies and doesn’t quite belong.
67 The deed was cruel because Drona was a brahmana and killing a brahmana was cruel.
68 Meaning Satyaki.
69 This is inconsistent. All of Duryodhana’s brothers were killed by Bhima. And Subahu has already been killed by Bhima in Section 64.
70 The demon Bali was eventually vanquished by Vishnu in his dwarf (vamana) incarnation. Prior to that, Bali de- feated the gods. However, there is no particular story connecting Agni with Bali.
71 There is a problem with this. Bhimaratha is Duryodhana’s brother and was killed by Bhima in Section 64. Shal- va was killed much later, by Satyaki. Chitrasena is also Duryodhana’s brother.
72 References to Ashvatthama.
73 Durmukha’s.
74 Meaning Satyaki.
75 The king of Chedi.
76 Descriptions of Somadatta’s son, Bhurishrava.
77 However, Manimana will later be killed by Drona.
78 The implication is that Bhurishrava’s charioteer was also slain.
79 There were several demons named Shambara. One of them was killed by Indra.
80 The Pandavas.
81 Bhima.
82 Because they were wounded, the elephants were streaked with blood.
83 Duryodhana’s.
84 Meaning, the lord of Anga.
85 In ancient times, mountains are believed to have possessed wings.
86 Back to Bhagadatta.
87 The wind is the friend of the ﬁre.
88 In ﬁghting with elephants. Effectively meaning that there is no one superior to Bhagadatta.
89 Bhagadatta was Indra’s friend.
90 These were the followers of Krishna who participated on the Kourava side in the war.
91 Arjuna.
92 Garuda.
93 The elephant.
94 The rules of fair combat required one to ﬁght from the front, not the sides or the rear.
95 Krishna is one of Arjuna’s names.
96 Bhagadatta.
97 Indra is Paka’s destroyer and Arjuna was Indra’s son.
98 Implying that Bhagadatta would not look upon the world for long.
99 Any divine weapon possessed the characteristic that with the appropriate mantra, any object could be invested with the power of the weapon. Thus, the vaishnava weapon was invoked on the goad.
100 While vaijayanti literally means a garland that portends of victory, it is also the name of Vishnu’s garland or necklace.
101 The demon Naraka was the earth’s son.
102 Naraka was killed by Krishna, when he began to oppress women. Naraka ruled in Pragjyotisha and Bhagadatta was Naraka’s son.
103 Bhagadatta was actually Indra’s friend.
104 The Indian laburnum.
105 Vrishaka.
106 The text should be translated as two months, not several months. An alternative translation of two months of summer, excluding the monsoon, is also possible.
107 Nalikas. However, these can be any hollowed weapon.
108 The word used is srimara. While this is a kind of small deer, in general it also means an animal that frequents marshy places and has been identiﬁed as nilgai.
109 The word used is rakshasas. But in this context, the more general ﬂesh-eater is more appropriate.
110 This was part of Shakuni’s maya too.
111 Jyotisha has several meanings. It can also be translated as light.
112 Alternatively, my right.
113 Dhrishtadyumna.
114 Nila was the king of Mahishmati and there was an ancient enmity between him and Ashvatthama.
115 Nila pierced Ashvatthama.
116 The image is of a bird ﬂying away with a prey in its talons.
117 Nila.
118 That is, on beds made out of arrows.
119 Because of the blood.
120 Dhrishtadyumna.
121 The word used in the text is dhumaketu. While this means comet, it can also be translated as something that has smoke as its banner, that is, a ﬁre.
122 Shatrunjaya and Vipatha are sometimes stated to have been Karna’s sons, though they are described as brothers here.
123 Garuda.
