--- Section 1 ---
--- Chapters 200 to 210 ---
1 Droupadi.
2 Depending on the context, dharma is translated as law, virtue or religion. None of these captures the exact nu- ance of dharma holding things up and dharma has therefore been retained in the translation.
3 Divine sage.
4 Narada was Brahma’s son, born from Brahma’s mind. He was a messenger of the gods, travelling back and forth between the world of men and the world of the gods. He also had a tendency to create dissension and conﬂict.
5 Arghya, offerings made to those who are revered, including guests.
6 Sage.
7 Panchala was Drupada’s kingdom.
8 Demon. Asura or demon is used as the antithesis of sura or god.
9 Svarga (heaven), prithivi (earth) and patala (the nether world).
10 Actually, the Pandavas haven’t been told that Tilottama was an apsara. An apsara is a celestial maiden. Ap- saras are sometimes described as Indra’s servants and sometimes as wives of the gandharvas. They are also dancers and a bit like celestial courtesans.
11 Kunti.
12 Hiranyakashipu was the son of Kashyapa and Diti and his son was Prahlada. Vishnu killed him in his narasimha incarnation.
13 The daityas are the sons of Diti and were demons. Danavas are the sons of Danu and are also demons. Daitya, danava and asura are usually used synonymously, though the etymology is distinct.
14 Delusion.
15 Demon.
16 Koumuda is the month of Kartika and koumudi is a festival that is observed on the full moon day in Kartika (sometimes the full moon day in the month of Ashvina), when everything is illuminated.
17 Magha is one of the twenty-seven lunar mansions or nakshatras, speciﬁcally, the tenth. Nakshatra can be translated as star, but not all nakshatras are stars. Sometimes, they are constellations. For instance, Magha is actu- ally a constellation with ﬁve stars.
18 The critical edition has dharma. Some other editions have varma or armour, in which case, the army would have been clad in armour. Given the context, varma is more appropriate.
19 Bards.
20 Heaven needs explanation, the word used in Sanskrit is trivishtapa. More accurately, the word should be translated as Indra’s world. There were thirty (or thirty-three) gods. Even more accurately, trivishtapa should be translated as the world of the thirty.
21 Yakshas are a semi-divine species and companions of Kubera, the god of treasure.
22 Rakshas or rakshasas are demons and evil spirits, but a distinct species from daityas. Rakshas are also guardians or protectors and that sense is more relevant in this context.
23 Serpants. Throughout the translation, we have used serpents for nagas and snakes for sarpas. Nagas are not quite snakes. They are semi-divine, can assume human forms and live in speciﬁc regions. All these traits are un- characteristic of snakes.
24 A mleccha is a barbarian, meaning that mlecchas do not speak Sanskrit and are not aryas.
25 Royal sages.
26 Garuda.
27 Siddhi means accomplishment. Siddhas are semi-divine species who have attained these superhuman accom- plishments or faculties.
28 Rishis who know the nature of the brahman, the supreme being.
29 Literally, great god. Shiva.
30 The god of ﬁre.
31 The god of wind.
32 The moon-god Chandra.
33 The sun-god Aditya.
34 Parameshthi is an epithet for various gods—Brahma, Shiva, Vishnu and Agni. Since Brahma, Shiva and Agni have been separately mentioned, here it probably means Vishnu.
35 Budha is someone who is wise, it is also a name for Mercury.
36 Hermits.
37 60,000 sages who were the sizes of thumbs. They preceded the sun’s chariot.
38 This must be a class of sages, but the meaning is unclear. Perhaps it means those who were descended from Marichi, one of Brahma’s mental sons, that is, a son born through Brahma’s mental powers.
39 Great sages.
40 The architect among the gods.
41 Lakshmi, the goddess of wealth and prosperity.
42 Tila means a small particle, while uttama means best or excellent. The best of the small bits had been used in creating Tilottama.
43 Brahma.
44 Mahadeva or Shiva.
45 Shiva.
46 Shiva’s.
47 Bala was a demon and Indra killed him. Thus, Indra is the slayer of Bala.
48 Brahma.
49 Semi-divine species, musicians of the gods.
50 Tall tree.
51 That is, ﬁrst in grasping Tilottama’s hand.
52 The word aditya has four different meanings. First, Aditya is the sun-god. Second, all the sons of Aditi are known as adityas. Hence, aditya is a term for gods in general. Third, Aditya is also sometimes used as an epithet for Vishnu. Fourth, there are twelve manifestations of the sun-god, known collectively as adityas. These shine to- gether when the universe is destroyed. In this context, either the fourth or the second meaning is indicated, proba- bly the fourth.
53 Brahmacharya is the ﬁrst of the four stages (ashramas) of life, the other three being garhasthya (householder stage), vanaprastha (retirement to the forest) and sannyasa (renunciation). One who is in the brahmacharya stage is a brahmachari. Brahmacharya is usually translated as celibacy, though anyone who follows the path of the brah- man is a brahmachari.
54 The goddess of learning, also a river.
55 Sarasvati is often depicted with elephants anointing her.
56 The Pandavas were also descended from Kuru.
57 The four pursuits in life are dharma (righteous conduct), artha (riches), kama (desire) and moksha (salvation).
58 Arjuna’s name.
59 Arjuna.
60 Yudhishthira.
61 One without enemies, Yudhishthira’s name.
62 Arjuna’s name. Savyasachi means someone who is left-handed.
63 Arjuna’s name.
64 The six vedangas are shiksha (articulation and pronunciation), chhanda (prosody), vyakarana (grammar), nirukta (etymology), jyotisha (astronomy) and kalpa (rituals).
65 Indra.
66 Gods of the wind.
67 Sacriﬁces to Agni. Agnihotra means maintenance of the sacred ﬁre and offering oblations to it.
68 Coincidentally, Kouravya means a descendant of Kuru, as does Kourava.
69 Agni.
70 Kunti’s son, that is, Arjuna.
71 Ananga. Ananga means one without a body and there is a story where the god of love lost his body because he managed to annoy Shiva.
72 Yudhishthira.
73 The vajra is Indra’s weapon and Arjuna was Indra’s son.
74 Mahadeva is Uma’s consort.
75 A putrika is a daughter who is regarded as a son. After marriage, she lives in her father’s household. Her son is regarded as her father’s son and becomes the heir.
76 Place of pilgrimage.
77 Kubera.
78 The word used is lokapala, which translates as protector or preserver of the worlds. In this context, it might mean either Brahma or Vishnu. There are also eight lokapalas who are regarded as guardians of the eight direc- tions. But that is clearly not meant.
79 The enemy of Madhu, Krishna’s name. Vishnu had killed a demon named Madhu.
80 Arjuna’s name. The name literally means fearsome or terrible.
81 Krishna.
82 Ancient sages, whose names invariably occur together. Narayana is also Vishnu’s name and nara also means man. Narayana is equated with Krishna and Nara with Arjuna.
83 Krishna’s name, since Krishna belonged to the lineage of the Vrishnis.
84 Krishna’s name. Strictly speaking, Vishnu’s name.
85 Musical instrument, lute.

--- Section 2 ---
--- Chapters 211 to 212 ---
1 Hala means plough and Haladhara is the wielder of the plough, that is, Balarama. Revati is Balarama’s wife.
2 A gandharva is a celestial musician. But here, it probably means musicians in general.
3 Rukmini was married to Krishna and their son is Pradyumna.
4 Pritha’s son, Arjuna.
5 Though we have written it as Vasudeva, Krishna is actually Vaasudeva, because he is Vasudeva’s son. Bhadra or Subhadra is Vasudeva’s daughter and is therefore Vaasudeva Krishna’s sister.
6 Though Krishna and Subhadra had Vasudeva as their common father, their mothers were different. Sarana and Subhadra had the same mother too.
7 Krishna.
8 A ceremony where a bride chooses her husband from assembled suitors.
9 That is, Yudhishthira.
10 Arjuna.
11 Yudhishthira’s sanction.
12 The names of the two horses.
13 Presiding ofﬁcer for want of a better word. Sabha is an assembly hall and the word used in the text is sabha- pala, meaning controller or presiding ofﬁcer of the assembly hall.
14 A maharatha is in general a mighty warrior. More speciﬁcally, a maharatha is skilled in the use of all weapons and can take on ten thousand warriors single-handedly.
15 Jishnu is one of Arjuna’s names and means the victorious one.
16 Vanamali is usually a name for Krishna. But here it means Baladeva or Balarama.
17 Halayudha is Baladeva’s name and means one whose weapon is a plough.
18 Baladeva’s name.
19 Krishna’s name, meaning the one without decay.
20 Krishna’s name.
21 Krishna’s name.

--- Section 3 ---
--- Chapters 213 to 213 ---
1 Arjuna’s name.
2 That is, increased the honour.
3 Partha means Pritha’s (Kunti’s) son, but is usually used for Arjuna.
4 Satvata actually means a follower or worshipper of Krishna. Here it means the Yadavas.
5 Period of exile.
6 Yudhishthira.
7 That is, out of jealousy.
8 Droupadi.
9 Madhava is one of Krishna’s names.
10 Pundarika is a lotus, usually the white lotus. Pundarikaksha means one with lotus eyes and is Vishnu’s name, used here for Krishna.
11 Balarama.
12 Nakula and Sahadeva.
13 Purandara is Indra’s name and means the sacker of cities.
14 A more literal translation is that he smelt Krishna’s head. This is a sign of affection displayed towards those who are younger, Krishna being younger than Yudhishthira.
15 Bhima was also older than Krishna.
16 This means those who were younger or inferior to Yudhishthira.
17 Of riches.
18 Shakra is another name for Indra. Hence, Shakraprastha means Indraprastha.
19 Jayanta is Indra’s son. Indra’s wife is Shachi. Since she is Pouloma’s daughter, she is also known as Poulomi.
20 Abhi means extreme and manyu means anger.
21 An unrivalled warrior, whose valour is unlimited, greater than a maharatha.
22 Kind of tree used in sacriﬁces, said to contain ﬁre in its womb.
23 In the sense that all the Pandavas were indirectly his fathers.
24 Arjuna’s name, meaning the terrible or fearful one.
25 Indra.
26 Daughter of Panchala, Droupadi.
27 Bhima.
28 Prati means like or resembling.
29 Soma is the name of a plant and its juice and soma sacriﬁces are sacriﬁces at which soma juice is offered.
30 He should therefore be thus named, the word suta meaning son.
31 He should therefore be thus named, shruta means heard and karma means deed. Kiriti is one of Arjuna’s names.
32 This connection is not clear.
33 The family priest.

--- Section 4 ---
--- Chapters 214 to 225 ---
1 Bhishma. Shantanu was Bhishma’s father.
2 Meaning good deeds.
3 Yudhishthira.
4 The king became like a fourth objective to be attained.
5 Varnas.
6 The goddess of wealth.
7 Literally, the lord of all beings. But more generally, the lord of creation. Though usually applied to Brahma, the term is also used for Vishnu and for ten lords of the world created by Brahma. In this context, the reference is to Brahma.
8 Since pura means a city, Purandara is the destroyer of cities and is Indra’s name.
9 Descendant of the Vrishni lineage, that is, Krishna.
10 Arjuna and Krishna respectively.
11 Though rarely used, Krishna is also one of Arjuna’s names.
12 The twin physicians of the gods.
13 That is, the morning sun.
14 Shakra is one of Indra’s names.
15 Prevent them from running away.
16 Indra’s name. Shatakratu means the performer of a hundred sacriﬁces.
17 The word used in the text is pishacha.
18 A lokapala is a protector (pala) of a loka or a world. The number of lokas is sometimes three, sometimes sev- en and sometimes fourteen. Here, the reference is to the three worlds of heaven, earth and the nether regions and the waters have been added as a fourth world.
19 The name of the bow.
20 Vishnu’s weapon, usually translated in English as a discus, though disc is more appropriate. It is a circular weapon, hurled like a missile.
21 Bhoumana is Vishvakarma’s name. Vishvakarma is the architect of the gods. The Sanskrit text of the critical edition actually says Bhouvana, though many regional versions say Bhoumana. Bhoumana and Bhouvana are synonymous.
22 A vimana is a celestial chariot and those who are virtuous get to ride on vimanas.
23 Vishnu’s club.
24 The sense is that no hole to escape could be found between the two chariots.
25 The eight cardinal points, plus above and below.
26 Indra has one thousand eyes.
27 Indra. Indra slew a demon named Vritra.
28 Harivahana is Indra’s name, because Hari is the name of Indra’s horse. The word hari means tawny, so that was probably the horse’s colour.
29 Of chariots.
30 Indra slew a demon named Namuchi.
31 The word used is bhalla. The word is used for an arrow, as well as for a missile that is like a small spear.
32 Phalguna or Phalguni is Arjuna’s name. He was thus named because he was born when the nakshatra Phalgu- ni was in the ascendant.
33 Suparna is Garuda’s mother.
34 It isn’t clear from the Mahabharata what kind of a weapon a bhushundi was. It was a weapon that was hurled and could have been a simple rock. However, in descriptions of the Kurukshetra War, it seems to have been more sophisticated than a simple rock.
35 The gods number thirty or thirty-three.
36 The staff of death.
37 A shibika is a palanquin, the god of wealth or Kubera’s weapon.
38 Noose.
39 This seems to be a special kind of chakra, though Shiva’s weapon is actually a trident. However, the word Shiva is also used generically for any god.
40 Herbs.
41 Bow.
42 Club.
43 Spear.
44 Yama.
45 Battleaxe.
46 Mace.
47 Krishna and Arjuna. Achyuta means one who does not decay and is usually used for Krishna.
48 Paka was a demon killed by Indra.
49 Literally, those who move about (chara) in the night (nisha), but the term is also speciﬁcally used for gob- lins, jackals, owls and snakes.
50 Kinnaras are mythical and semi-divine species, with human bodies and heads of horses. They are the com- panions of Kubera.
51 Indra.
52 A demon killed by Indra.
53 The chataka birds, but also peacocks.
54 The term for this is urdhvareta, meaning those who hold up their semen.
55 Yama, the god of death.
56 In this context, this should be interpreted as a period earmarked for studying, rather than lifelong celibacy.
57 There are several hells (naraka). A son is named putra because he saves (trana) the father from the hell named put. This hell is also called punnam, which means, by the name of put.
58 The former human wife.
59 The way of the birds.
60 The sacriﬁcial ﬁre is of three types—garhapatya (in the household), ahavaniya (used in sacriﬁces) and dak- shina (the one placed facing the south).
61 The number eight has two possible interpretations. The ﬁrst is the ordinary ﬁre and the other seven consisting of the sacriﬁcial ﬁre in seven different places—the wife’s position at the sacriﬁce, the soma altar, the general altar, the seat of the priest who maintains the sacriﬁcial ﬁre, the area reserved for the assisting priests, the place where the rituals are performed and the place where the worship is performed. The second and perhaps more convincing explanation is the ordinary aggregated ﬁre and the seven ﬂames or tongues a ﬁre is supposed to have—karali (frightful), dhumini (full of smoke), shveta (white), lohita (red), neelalohita (bluish red), suvarna (golden) and padmaraga (red like a ruby).
62 Jataveda is one of Agni’s names and means that the Vedas are born from (jata) the ﬁre.
63 Dhata means creator and is also a term used for Brahma and Vishnu.
64 The preceptor of the gods. In earlier times, Brihaspati was also a term used for Indra.
65 The word yama itself means two or a couple and can therefore also be an adjective used for the two Ashvins. However, if it is not an adjective, the two Yamas can only mean Yama and his sister Yami.
66 The god of wind or Vayu.
67 Hiranyareta, the one with the golden (hiranya) seed (reta) is a name used for the ﬁre and for the sun.
68 Pavana is the name of the wind and means the puriﬁer.
69 The word used in the text is Shukra. Shukra is the preceptor of the gods and is also the planet Venus. But it means the virile one and is also a term used for Agni.
70 The time for destruction.
71 Jatharagni is the digestive ﬁre, that is the gastric ﬂuids, inside the stomach (jathara).
72 The god of the ocean or of water.
73 The tide goes away, bypassing houses on the shore. In that sense, the ﬁre should bypass the Sharngakas.
74 The truth.
75 Jarita.
76 Instead of wretch, the word kapurusha can also be translated as coward.
77 The saptarshis or seven (sapta) great sages (rishi) were born from Brahma’s mental powers and were Marichi, Atri, Angira, Pulastya, Pulaha, Kratu and Vasishtha. They are also the seven stars in the constellation Ursa Major. Arundhati was Vasishtha’s wife and is also a companion star to Vasishtha in Ursa Major. Arundhati was a devoted wife, except for one transgression, which is why Arundhati is invoked in marriage ceremonies. The star Arundhati is not as dazzling as the star Vasishtha, so it is often difﬁcult to make it out in the night sky and there is also a belief that a person who is approaching death can no longer see Arundhati.
78 Agneya and vayavya are divine weapons, respectively associated with the gods of ﬁre and the wind. The for- mer causes ﬂames, while the latter causes wind.

--- Section 5 ---
--- Chapters 226(1) to 236(11) ---
1 Architectural designs.
2 Maya.
3 Rice cooked with sweetened milk.
4 Cubits. Literally the word means a forearm; so the length or span of a forearm.
5 Kunti was his aunt on his father’s side. Krishna’s father was in Dvaraka.
6 Krishna, also used for Vishnu, meaning the lord of the senses.
7 Droupadi.
8 This can mean grain of any kind. But it is speciﬁcally used for threshed and winnowed rice that has not been dehusked.
9 A name for Garuda, as well as for his elder brother Aruna.
10 The name of Krishna and Vishnu’s bow, the word signifying that it was made of horn.
11 A brief instant of time.
12 Lunar day.
13 They were yoked to the chariot.
14 A whisk or fan made out of a yak’s tail and a sign of royalty.
15 About the time of return.
16 Name for Vishnu or Krishna, meaning the brave one. Also a name for Balarama.
17 The word used in the text is bhanda, which means a vessel, as well as treasure. If the word is translated as vessel, the jewels have been kept in a vessel. But the word transalted as treasure, seems more appropriate given the context.
18 Vrishaparva is the king of the danavas. Since he is faithful to his promises, he would not have appropriated the treasure.
19 Yuvanashva’s son. His name was Mandhatri and he was born from Yuvanashva’s belly.
20 Bhagiratha was King Sagara’s great grandson and needed to bring the celestial river Ganga down to earth, so that his 60,000 ancestors, Sagara’s sons, might be freed. Accordingly, he performed penances.
21 That is, the sacriﬁcial stakes need not have been thus ornamented.
22 Meaning, Maya.
23 The word kimkara means servant. Literally, a kimkara is someone who asks what (kim) he should do (kara).
24 Lapis lazuli.
25 This may not be what is meant. The text uses the word dvija, which means any oviparous animal and can re- fer to ﬁsh, snakes or birds. Most translators have interpreted the word as bird (aquatic). But ﬁsh seems more plausible.
26 This may also be a metaphor. The water on the lotus leaves may have been compared with dots of pearls.
27 They mistook it for land.
28 Ducks.
29 Geese.
30 The Greeks, but can also be applied to all foreigners or barbarians.
31 Indra.
32 The words used in the text are rourava and ajina. Ruru is a deer and rourava is its skin. Ajina can be used to mean the hide of a tiger, lion or elephant too, but is commonly used for the hide of a black antelope.
33 Pradyumna.
34 Yuyudhana is one of Satyaki’s names.
35 Time. The word also means a cymbal. So an alternative translation is, knowledgeable in the playing of cymbals.
36 Keeping time in music.
37 Yudhishthira.
38 Peace or alliance, war, marching or an expedition, halting or pausing, seeking shelter and duplicity.
39 The traditional four means are sama (conciliation or negotiation), dana (bribery), danda (punishment) and bheda (dissension). To these one adds maya (delusion or deceit), upeksha (neglect) and indrajala (magic) to obtain seven means.
40 The number fourteen isn’t clear. The most plausible explanation is the fourteen branches of knowledge—the four Vedas, the six Vedangas, the Dharmashastras, the Puranas, Mimamsa and Tarka.
41 The eight royal duties—acceptance or seizure, giving of gifts, use of servants, prohibition, speech, conduct, punishment and puriﬁcation.
42 One who looks after the fort, the executioner, the one in charge of law, the messenger, the priest and the soothsayer.
43 There is a problem of translation here. The word used in the text is tirtha, which means several things, includ- ing a place of pilgrimage. Eighteen places of pilgrimage on the enemy’s side and ﬁfteen on one’s own side don’t make a great deal of sense. However, the word tirtha, also means minister. It is not obvious why there should be eighteen ministers on the enemy’s side, and who they are, and why there should be ﬁfteen on one’s own side.
44 The word used is patita, which can also be interpreted in the speciﬁc sense of having fallen from one’s caste.
45 Elephants, cavalry and infantry.
46 Respectively, the four techniques of conciliation, donations, chastisement and dissension, used to govern.
47 Elephants, cavalry, infantry and chariots.
48 Elephants, cavalry, infantry, chariots, charioteers, servants, allies and spies.
49 These pleasures are obviously intended for the later part of the day. They must presumably be known in the forenoon so that arrangements can be made.
50 Unfortunately, one can’t readily deduce the rate of interest, per cent. One pratika is the amount that can be bought with a coin known as karshapana, but the karshapana itself had different values.
51 The word used is varta, which in general, means the professions of agriculture, trade, animal husbandry and moneylending. However, the word varta is also used for agriculture in particular.
52 The ﬁve ofﬁcers who are in charge of the city, the fort, the countryside, the treasury and punishing criminals.
53 The sense isn’t clear. It probably means knowing those (the spies) who are inside the enemy’s kingdom.
54 The day is divided into eight yamas, each yama consisting of three hours. The night consists of three yamas and is therefore also known as yami or yamini.
55 The word used is paschima, which means last, as well as west.
56 The eight divisions of medicine—digestive, pediatrics, planetary inﬂuences, thorns, bites, secretions, sores, poison and their treatment.
57 The three Vedas, the Atharva Veda not being counted.
58 A fee, remuneration or gift offered to brahmanas. A speciﬁc type of dakshina is offered to a teacher or pre- ceptor on successful completion of one’s studies.
59 A pundarika is a lotus, usually the white lotus. But it is also the name of a sacriﬁce.
60 Covetousness on the part of those who should do the punishing, that is, there is no bribery.
61 Maintenance of the sacred ﬁre and rendering offerings to it.
62 Literally, Brahma’s staff. However, the expression is used more for the curse of a brahmana.
63 In this context, varna clearly means caste.
64 Yama is the king of the ancestors.
65 Kubera, the lord of treasure and wealth, lives in Kailasa.
66 Brahma.
67 Yama’s father is Vivasvat, the sun. Hence, Yama is Vaivasvata.
68 Descendant of Kuru. In this case, Yudhishthira.
69 A yojana is a measure of distance and is between eight and nine miles.
70 Shachi is Indra’s wife. Mahendra means the great Indra and is one of Indra’s ephithets. Shri and Lakshmi were originally independent goddesses, but eventually became identical. Shri is the goddess of prosperity, while Lakshmi is the goddess of wealth.
71 The word used is lohita, which can also be translated as copper.
72 These are feminine personiﬁcations of modesty, fame and radiance respectively.
73 Faith.
74 Wisdom.
75 The goddess of learning, also a river.
76 A stobha is a sacriﬁcial hymn.
77 Saptarshi or seven great sages.
78 Brahmana sages.
79 Region in north India, around Kumaon. Its capital was Alaka, located on the Alakananda river.
80 Sunitha has been mentioned before, so has Nala of Nishadha. It is of course possible that more than one per- son had the same name.
81 The region around the Punjab, though in the text the reference is to the king of the region.
82 That is, Rama, the son of Dasharatha.
83 That is, Parashurama, the son of Jamadagni.
84 Matsya and Virata are the names of the same kingdom, in today’s Rajasthan.
85 The name of a royal lineage, difﬁcult to identify beyond that.
86 The name of a royal lineage, difﬁcult to identify beyond that.
87 There were a hundred kings named Dhritarashtra.
88 There were eighty kings named Janamejaya.
89 There were one hundred kings named Brahmadatta.
90 It is not clear who these Iris were.
91 There were thousands of kings with this name.
92 Time or destiny, personiﬁed.
93 Death personiﬁed.
94 Agnishvatta, a term used for brahmanas.
95 All these are classes of ancestors.
96 Havyavahana, the ﬁre-god Agni.
97 Tree associated with cremation grounds.
98 The palasha tree is also called kimshuka.
99 Kind of grass.
100 Holy grass used in religious ceremonies.
101 Yama.
102 Pritha’s son, Yudhishthira.
103 Varuna’s queen and consort.
104 The name of a naga, not to be confused with the famous Krishna.
105 The name of a naga, not to be confused with Arjuna.
106 The name of a naga, not be confused with the famous Janamejaya.
107 Bali was the son of Virochana and Prahlada’s (or Prahrada) grandson. Vishnu subjugated him in his dwarf (vamana) incarnation.
108 There are different accounts of Naraka, all agreeing that he was the demon-king of Pragjyotisha and that Krishna killed him.
109 Dashagriva is Ravana’s name. But there is no indication that Ravana is meant here.
110 Not to be confused with the Bali mentioned earlier.
111 Vishnu killed two demons named Madhu and Kaitabha. But there is no indication that this is the same Kaitabha.
112 Varuna’s weapon is the noose (pasha).
113 The word used for ocean is samudra. Actually, there are seven oceans, not four. However, the word samudra also means four, perhaps explaining why four oceans are mentioned.
114 Another name for the Yamuna.
115 Vidisha is the capital of the Dasharna region, the eastern parts of Malava. Vidisha is located on the banks of the rivers Vetravati (Betwa) and Kadambari. However, Vidisha is also a river and is probably the Beas, which joins the Vetravati. However, the Beas is also mentioned separately later.
116 A river that joins the Krishna river.
117 Beas.
118 Sutlej.
119 Chenab.
120 Great river that has now dried up.
121 Jhelum.
122 Indus.
123 Devanada means the river of the gods. In the translation, Devanada has been listed as a separate river. But it is also possible that this is an adjective for the Sindhu, describing it as the river of the gods.
124 The river Krishna. The river Venna, which joins the Krishna, has already been mentioned earlier.
125 Kubera. Kubera’s father was the sage Vishrava, Pulastya’s son. Hence, Kubera is known as Vaishravana. Kubera’s mother was Idavida. However, Vishrava had another wife named Kaikasi and through her, had Ravana, Kumbhakarna, Vibhishana and Surpanakha as offspring.
126 Semi-divine species, companions of Kubera.
127 Alaka is the name of Kubera’s capital.
128 Beautiful gardens. Speciﬁcally, also the name of Indra’s garden.
129 Offer homage to Kubera.
130 The yakshas are a distinct species, companions of Kubera. They are not gandharvas. But the text here is not careful in maintaining these distinctions.
131 Kubera’s son.
132 Tryambaka, meaning three-eyed. One of Shiva’s names.
133 Pashupati is Shiva’s name and his consort is Uma. Umapati is thus Shiva’s name.
134 The name of a demon.
135 Uma.
136 The bhutas, spirits and goblins that are Shiva’s companions.
137 Shiva.
138 Kubera.
139 Brahma’s.
140 Aditya is the son of Aditi and refers to gods in general. In this context, it means the sun-god.
141 Yudhishthira.
142 Gopati, or lord of cattle, a term also used for Indra, Krishna, Shiva and Varuna.
143 The sun-god.
144 The twenty-seven nakshatras or constellations.
145 Preceptor of the demons. But here, Venus.
146 Preceptor of the gods. But here, Jupiter.
147 Mercury.
148 Mars. Literally, the red-coloured one.
149 Saturn. The text actually says Shanaishchara, meaning the slow-moving one.
150 This has no exact counterpart in the planets. Rahu is the demon that causes eclipses.
151 Here, mantra means a hymn from the Rig Veda and rathantara means a hymn from the Sama Veda.
152 The meaning of Harimat isn’t clear, though it might be a proper name.
153 Probably meaning wealth and riches, unless it is a proper name.
154 Meaning Indra.
155 Mitra-Varuna being an example.
156 Itihasa, usually equated with the two epics.
157 That is, the Savitri mantra.
158 The seven kinds of speech is a reference to languages spoken in seven different kingdoms, the languages named after the kingdoms—Magadhi, Avanti, Prachya, Shouraseni, Ardhamagadhi, Bahlika and Dakshinatya.
159 Instant, measure of time equal to four-ﬁfths of a second.
160 Small measure of time, equal to one-sixth of a kshana.
161 Small measure of time, but also forty-eight minutes.
162 This probably means the four yugas or eras, with the intervening periods counted as a ﬁfth yuga.
163 The four quarters into which twenty-four hours are divided.
164 Semi-divine species, followers of Kubera.
165 Demons, also referred to as the kalakeyas.
166 The word used in the text is Vrishadvaja, meaning the one with the bull on his ﬂag. Vrishadvaja is one of Shiva’s names.
167 Kubera.
168 Great rishis.
169 The word dvipa means island. But it also means a continent or terrestrial region, the sense in which the ex- pression is used here. With Mount Meru in the centre, the earth was divided into four, seven, nine, thirteen or eigh- teen dvipas, each dvipa separated from another with an ocean. Although the number of dvipas varies from descrip- tion to description, seven is the usual number.
170 Royal sacriﬁce performed when a king instated himself as emperor over all other kings. An integral part of a royal sacriﬁce was the payment of tribute by all other kings to the undisputed and universal emperor.
171 This isn’t Narada’s message to Yudhishthira. It is Pandu’s message to Yudhishthira, being conveyed through Narada. The critical edition excises some shlokas available in other versions, where Pandu’s request to Narada to act as a messenger is explicitly mentioned.
172 Brahma rakshasas are demons, but had been born as brahmanas. But they were evil, abducting other men’s wives or stealing the property of brahmanas. Consequently, after death, they become demons.
173 A war is likely, since other kings are forced to offer tribute.
174 The Dasharhas are the Yadavas and the city of the Dasharhas is Dvaravati or Dvaraka.

--- Section 6 ---
--- Chapters 237(12) to 242(17) ---
1 Shatru means enemy and ajata means not being born. So Ajatashatru means someone for whom no enemy has been born, one without foes.
2 The six types of sacriﬁcial ﬁres are named agnishtoma, kshatradhriti, vyushti, dviratri, saptapeya and saptadashapeya.
3 That is, there is no need to wait for any prescribed date. Depending on one’s powers, the sacriﬁce can be start- ed immediately.
4 Krishna.
5 Indrasena is Yudhishthira’s charioteer and is clearly the one who was sent as messenger.
6 Krishna.
7 Kunti.
8 Parashurama.
9 Pururava, the son of Ila and Budha, the ﬁrst king of the lunar dynasty.
10 Son of Vaivasvata Manu and the ﬁrst king of the solar dynasty.
11 The region around Mathura. Mathura was the land of the Yadavas and Jarasandha laid siege to it on eighteen occasions.
12 Jarasandha. Since chatura means clever, Chaturyu may be a reference to Jarasandha’s wiliness. Jarasandha was the son of Brihadratha. He was born in two halves that were united by a she-demon named Jara. Thus, the child came to be known as Jarasandha, the word sandhi meaning to join.
13 Probably Vakra being repeated.
14 Greek. More correctly, Ionian.
15 This is odd. Elsewhere in the Mahabharata, Bhagadatta is said to rule in the east.
16 To Jarasandha.
17 Shishupala. This is repetition again, since Shishupala has been mentioned earlier.
18 There was a Vasudeva of Pundra who was known as Vasudeva and also sported Krishna’s signs. He is re- ferred to a little later. In the text, Vasudeva of Pundra’s crimes are ascribed incorrectly to Shishupala, though the commonality is that both were Krishna’s enemies.
19 The eastern part of Bengal.
20 Kiratas are mountainous tribes who lived through hunting.
21 Jarasandha has been referred to as Chaturyu earlier. This is clearly a different Chaturyu.
22 Kingdom in southern India, near today’s Tirunelveli. It was near the mountain Malaya and the river Tamraparni.
23 Jarasandha was the king of Magadha. Magadha is the southern part of Bihar.
24 Because the Bhojas are a line of the Yadavas.
25 The king of Mathura and the son of Ugrasena. Devaki was Krishna’s mother and Kamsa was her cousin.
26 That is, he married Jarasandha’s daughters.
27 Krishna’s uncle.
28 Balarama.
29 Balarama.
30 The text uses the expression shatadha, which is a weapon that can kill a hundred at a time. More common is the expression shataghni, which is also a weapon that can kill a hundred (shata) at a time.
31 Also known as Dimbhaka.
32 Name for Mathura.
33 Dvaravati.
34 Also known as Raivataka.
35 The Yadavas are descended from Madhu and are known as Madhavas. Madhavitirtha is the same as Raivata and probably means the tirtha of the Madhavas, though Madhavatirtha would have been more appropriate.
36 The eighteen branches of the Yadavas.
37 Meaning Pradyumna, the son of Krishna and Rukmini.
38 Balarama or Baladeva.
39 Shouri is a name for both Krishna and Balarama. But since Krishna is doing the speaking here, the Shouri in question is Balarama.
40 An atiratha is a warrior on a chariot who is unrivalled in battle.
41 There are thus ten maharathas.
42 The middle country is the region around Mathura.
43 Jarasandha’s capital in Magadha.
44 Meaning the Himalayas.
45 Meaning Jarasandha, the king of Magadha.
46 That is, through protecting his subjects.
47 Pashupati is Shiva, literally, the lord of animals. The sense is that the imprisoned kings have been prepared like sacriﬁcial animals.
48 Jarasandha is waiting for the tally of imprisoned kings to become one hundred, which is when he will sacri- ﬁce them.
49 Arjuna.
50 Arjuna obtained the sabha in the sense that it was because of him that Maya built the assembly hall.
51 Of his enemies.
52 By becoming ascetics.
53 That is, if both sides are guided by good policy.
54 Jarasandha.
55 An akshouhini is an army and consists of 21,870 chariots, 21,870 elephants, 65,610 horses and 109,350 infantrymen.
56 Son of Vishrava. In this context, Kubera.
57 Brahma.
58 The root sandha (as in sandhi) means union or junction.
59 Brihadratha. A few lines later, Magadha will also be used for Jarasandha.
60 Meaning, kings.
61 That is, the ocean.
62 Jarasandha.
63 Rudra, Mahadeva and Hara are different names for Shiva. Tripura was a collection of three (tri) cities (pura), constructed by Maya for the demons. Tripura was in the sky and the three cities were made out of gold, silver and iron. Shiva burnt them down. Tripura is also the name of the demon-king who ruled over these cities.
64 All names of Yadava tribes.

--- Section 7 ---
--- Chapters 243(18) to 247(22) ---
1 There is a problem of translation here. The text says prana yuddha. Prana is the breath of life and yuddha is battle. What ensues is a duel and wrestling match between Bhima and Jarasandha. Why is it described as a battle of breath? Some regional versions say bahu (arm) yuddha, which ﬁts in with a wrestling match. Is it the case that the strength of one’s breath is important in a wrestling match?
2 Arjuna.
3 In this case, Arjuna.
4 Krishna. Shouri is also a name for Balarama.
5 In this case, Arjuna.
6 Although used relatively infrequently, Krishna is also one of Arjuna’s names.
7 The sense probably is that forces must be directed to places where the enemy possesses weaknesses. Holes or gaps are symbolic of weaknesses.
8 Krishna was the Pandavas’ cousin.
9 The word used is snataka, meaning a brahmana who has completed his period of celibate student life and is about to step into the householder stage.
10 Literally, the forest (jangala) of the Kuru kingdom. It roughly corresponds to Haryana today.
11 Literally, a lake with lotuses.
12 A mountain towards the north.
13 Geographically, this cannot be in sequence. In sequence, the journey to Magadha would have involved cross- ing the rivers Gandaki, Sadanira and Shona, in that order.
14 The river Sarayu ﬂows through Koshala, a region around Ayodha. Again geographically, they should have crossed the Sarayu earlier.
15 Charmanvati is today’s Chambal and actually takes them in a completely opposite direction. The next sen- tence takes them back to the right route.
16 The amaranth tree.
17 Obviously meaning the capital of Magadha, Girivraja or Rajagriha. Girivraja is surrounded by ﬁve hills, but none of them is today known as Goratha. These hills will be named in the next chapter.
18 The word is usually used for a son, but has a more general meaning and can be applied to any student, child, inferior or junior. It is a term of affection. The word is also used for a father or someone in similar paternal position.
19 Rajagriha’s ﬁve hills are today known as Vipulagiri, Ratnagiri, Udayagiri, Shonagiri and Vaibhara (or Vyahara).
20 Tree with red or white ﬂowers.
21 Tree, also known as piyala.
22 That is, there is never scarcity of rain. Mani is also known as Maniman.
23 There is clearly a problem with the text here, since the word used is masha, which means bean. Should it be mamsa (meat), as it reads in some regional versions? Then, Brihadratha may have killed a meat-eating demon named Rishabha. Nor is it clear that Rishabha is a proper name. The word also means a bull. In that case, why did Brihadratha kill a bean-eating bull and why is it important enough to be mentioned?
24 The drums were made out of Rishabha’s skin. So perhaps it was a bull.
25 One of the ﬁve peaks.
26 As a metaphor, by scaling Chaitya.
27 Presumably, they broke down a fortiﬁcation on the mountain, rather than the mountain itself. The word shringa, which is used, means the peak of a turret, as well as that of a mountain.
28 Known as madhuparka and customarily offered to a guest.
29 Krishna’s name.
30 On the throne. Sahadeva was Jayadratha’s son.
31 Vishnu’s name, and thus Krishna’s too.
32 A crowd had assembled to watch the duel and people had to back off if the wrestlers approached too close.
33 That is, Krishna didn’t directly speak to Bhima what he intended. Directly advising a warrior engaged in a duel would have been improper. Krishna offered advice that seemingly meant one thing, but reading between the lines, was interpreted by Bhima the way Krishna meant it to be interpreted. Bhima understood that Jarasandha was now weakened.
34 Kunti’s son and, in this context, Bhima.
35 Bhima.
36 Bhima was the son of the wind-god.
37 The kings, some of whom must have been Yadavas.
38 Krishna.
39 Bhima and Arjuna.
40 A demon eventually killed by Kartikeya.
41 Garuda came and sat on the ﬂagstaff.
42 Krishna.
43 As the king.
44 Bhima and Arjuna.
45 Yudhishthira.
46 They had also come to Indraprastha.
47 Krishna.
48 Droupadi.
49 Arjuna.
50 Yudhishthira.

--- Section 8 ---
--- Chapters 248(23) to 254(29) ---
1 Another name for Kubera, the lord of wealth. Since this was to the north, Arjuna’s quest for victory was in a northern direction.
2 Paka was a demon vanquished by Indra and Arjuna was Indra’s son.
3 Also known as Kulinda, but difﬁcult to pinpoint.
4 The region around Dvaraka.
5 Identiﬁed with Sialkot.
6 The word used in the text is dvipa, which not only means island, but also a continent or region of the earth. The earth was commonly believed to be divided into seven continents.
7 Shakala had kings other than Prativindhya too.
8 Assam.
9 Should be identiﬁed with Tibet rather than China proper.
10 Presumably, the Bay of Bengal. The text is best translated as ‘surrounded’. However, the sense probably is that these warriors also supported Bhagadatta.
11 Tone of affection towards a junior, not to be literally interpreted as son.
12 The tribute.
13 Kubera.
14 Brihanta.
15 It is not clear why Brihanta’s intelligence was limited. Some regional versions say that Brihanta was invinci- ble and that certainly ﬁts the circumstances better.
16 Arjuna was aided in his next campaign by Brihanta.
17 Arjuna.
18 A wild tribe that lived in the Himalayas. The word utsava means festival and also means height or elevation. It is not obvious how the name Utsavasamketa relates to the word utsava.
19 Arjuna’s name, meaning the one who wore a diadem.
20 Identiﬁed with what is West Bengal now.
21 The famous Cholas ruled in the south. So this must be a different set of Cholas.
22 The region around Punjab.
23 Another name for Arjuna, shorter form of Phalguna or Phalguni.
24 Area around the Hindu Kush, extending up to Ladakh and Tibet.
25 Famous battle between the gods and the demons. It took place after Chandra, the moon, abducted Tara, Bri- haspati’s wife.
26 One who has no decay, a name usually used for Krishna.
27 Gandaki is a tributary of the Ganga and Videha is the region to the north-east of Magadha, including parts of what is now Nepal.
28 Dasharna is the region around Vidisha and there is a geographical problem. Not only is Dasharna far from Videha, it cannot be described as part of the east.
29 It was an unarmed wrestling match.
30 Kunti’s son. Here, Bhima.
31 In this context, Bhima.
32 Shishupala.
33 That is, accepted Yudhishthira as a sovereign.
34 The text says pashubhumi, translated as the land (bhumi) with animals (pashu). It is perfectly possible that there might have been someone named Pashubhumi.
35 This broadly covers the territory of Bengal, that is, West Bengal and Bangladesh. It was to the west of Vanga.
36 Karna was the king of Anga.
37 Probably a wrestling match.
38 The name of a river, Koshi in Bihar.
39 Bengal, speciﬁcally the eastern part, mostly in Bangladesh now.
40 Capital of the Suhmas. Tamralipta is identiﬁed with today’s Tamluk. At that time, it was on the sea.
41 Pavana is the god of the wind and Bhima was his son.
42 The Brahmaputra River, so named because it had a reddish tinge.
43 Bhima.
44 The text says ten kotis and a koti is ten million.
45 There is a geographical inconsistency, since the Shurasenas refer to the region around Mathura.
46 Also known as Virata, in Rajasthan today.
47 Kuntibhoja.
48 Of the Pandavas.
49 The river Chambal.
50 The next sentence states that this son’s name was Bhoja.
51 There is a problem with the text of the critical edition here. It is not clear whom this tribute was extracted from. Other versions have a sentence about Sahadeva defeating the Sekas. Had this sentence been included in the critical edition, the tribute would have been from the Sekas.
52 The country around the Narmada. Its capital was Ujjayini (Ujjain), also known as Avantipuri.
53 The capital of the Chedi kingdom, adjacent to Avanti. In today’s Madhya Pradesh.
54 The critical edition excises shlokas that give the story. Agni seduced King Nila’s daughter and was caught in the act.
55 Agni was in the form of a brahmana and the king did not recognize him.
56 As wives.
57 To one husband.
58 The word used is svairini. This means a woman who is her own mistress and is unrestrained. But speciﬁcally, it is used for a wanton or unchaste woman.
59 One of Agni’s names. Literally, the puriﬁer.
60 Yudhishthira.
61 Sahadeva.
62 This is not a reference to the Tripura that is towards the east. The Chedis were known as the Traipuras and their capital was Tripuri.
63 In today’s Gujarat.
64 Bhishmaka’s daughter Rukmini was married to Krishna.
65 Land between the rivers Narmada and Godavari.
66 This is a literal translation and clearly misses a nuance. For example, there may have been only footpaths in the forest and ekapadi means a footpath. So ekapada might mean those who used footpaths, rather than men with single legs.
67 Perhaps the Cholas.
68 Identiﬁed as residents of Antioch.
69 Identiﬁed as residents of Rome.
70 The yavanas.
71 Today’s Gujarat.
72 Ravana’s younger brother, the son of the sage Pulastya.
73 Sahadeva.
74 Vibhishana.
75 Krishna.
76 The Indus River.
77 Abhiras are cowherds.
78 That is, the river.
79 Nakula.
80 Vasudeva.
81 Nakula’s.
82 Nakula’s mother Madri was Shalya’s sister.
83 This can also be translated, instead of as a proper name, as barbaras, meaning those who were barbarians or not Aryas.
84 Dvaraka is to the west and when Dvaraka was established, these regions were conquered by Krishna.

--- Section 9 ---
--- Chapters 255(30) to 257(32) ---
1 Yudhishthira.
2 Krishna.
3 A demon killed by Krishna.
4 Krishna.
5 Yudhishthira.
6 The Dasharhas were the Yadavas.
7 Yudhishthira’s.
8 Yudhishthira.
9 Yudhishthira.
10 Yudhishthira’s charioteer.
11 Bhima’s charioteer.
12 Sahadeva. Yudhishthira is speaking to Sahadeva.
13 The ofﬁciating priests are called ritvijas. There are four types of ofﬁciating priests—hotar (one who recites from the Rig Veda), udgatar (one who recites from the Sama Veda), adhvaryu (one who recites from the Yajur Veda) and brahman (one who recites from the Atharva Veda). This brahman is not to be confused with the supreme soul (brahman or paramatman).
14 Dvaipayana or Vedavyasa.
15 He was thus the udgatar. This Dhananjaya is a lineage of brahmanas and is not to be confused with Arjuna.
16 Yudhishthira.
17 Sahadeva.
18 Nakula.
19 Drona.
20 Drona has already been mentioned once.
21 Another name for Drupada.
22 Balarama.
23 Assistant priests.
24 Heaven.
25 Bhishma.
26 Drona.
27 Ashvatthama.
28 One of Duryodhana’s brothers.
29 Vidura’s name. The word means the son of a kshatriya father.
30 The text doesn’t specify one thousand of what. The sense is that irrespective of the type of gift, the threshold was at least one thousand.
31 The kings.

--- Section 10 ---
--- Chapters 258(33) to 261(36) ---
1 That is, the formal anointment or coronation at the end of the sacriﬁce.
2 Hari is Vishnu’s name and so is Pundarikaksha. Pundarika is a lotus, typically the white lotus, and aksha means eye. So Pundarikaksha means lotus-eyed.
3 The gods.
4 Shambhu is one who brings prosperity. It is usually used for Shiva, and sometimes Kartikeya and Ganesha too. But here, it is being used for Vishnu.
5 Shishupala is addressing Yudhishthira.
6 Bhishma, who was Ganga’s son.
7 Krishna is Vaasudeva, that is, Vasudeva’s son. Krishna has been written as Vasudeva, not Vaasudeva, to make the reading easier. In most instances, there is no danger of confusion, this being an exception. Krishna’s father, Va- sudeva, is also present.
8 This is a reference to either Kamsa or Jarasandha. But Krishna did not directly kill Jarasandha.
9 Though not explicitly mentioned, these words are clearly being uttered by Vaishampayana.
10 In this context, meaning Bhishma.
11 Satvata is a name for Vishnu, and Krishna.
12 Alternatively, son-in-law, as indicative of someone who deserves to be honoured.
13 Those born from wombs and eggs, plants and those born from sweat (insects and worms).
14 Because he doesn’t have the intelligence.
15 Demon killed by Krishna.
16 Of kings.
17 Another name for Shishupala.

--- Section 11 ---
--- Chapters 262(37) to 267(42) ---
1 Indra’s name.
2 Krishna.
3 Vishnu and Krishna’s name.
4 Krishna.
5 This is a reference to Bhishma’s vow of celibacy. By the third state, Bhishma is being called an eunuch.
6 Ogress killed by Krishna.
7 That is, those who are childlike in intelligence.
8 Putana assumed the form of a vulture.
9 Demons killed by Krishna. Keshi was in the form of a horse (ashva) and Arishta was in the form of a bull (vrishabha).
10 One of Krishna’s feats as a baby. He was asleep under the cart.
11 Krishna held up the mountain to provide shelter from the pouring rain.
12 Vrishabha.
13 Putana.
14 A bird that lives off carrion. It picks out bits of meat from the mouths of predators.
15 This is a reference to Dvaipayana fathering Dhritarashtra and Pandu.
16 Bhishma has not served his ancestors, because he did not have a son.
17 Fish.
18 Another bird.
19 Krishna.
20 That is, refused the food.
21 The Ganga ﬂows in heaven, earth and the nether regions.
22 The great god. In this context, Shiva.
23 Another name for Kartikeya.
24 Shishupala.
25 Bhima.
26 Shishupala.
27 Shishupala.
28 Balarama.
29 Shishupala’s father was married to a princess from the Yadava clan.
30 Damodara is one of Krishna’s names.
31 That is, sunk into the forehead and disappeared.
32 The word used is nandana, meaning son. But the word also means someone (or something) that brings de- light and pleasure. Therefore, it can also be interpreted as Krishna, the one who brings pleasure to the Yadu lineage.
33 Bhishma is speaking to Bhima.
34 Since it is so meagre.
35 Drona’s son, that is, Ashvatthama.
36 Implying, censure and worship of those one doesn’t have complete information about.
37 Kamsa was the king of Bhoja and Bhoja is one of Kamsa’s names.
38 The Yadavas.
39 Horse sacriﬁce.
40 Another name for Akrura.
41 She was to have been married to Karusha.
42 Krishna’s wife.
43 Rukmini was the daughter of King Bhishmaka of Vidarbha. Her father had promised her in marriage to Shishupala. However, Rukmini loved Krishna and sent him a letter. At that, Krishna and Balarama arrived, defeat- ed Rukmini’s brother Rukmi, and took Rukmini away.
44 They were undecided.
45 Yudhishthira.
46 Yudhishthira again.
47 Shishupala’s.
48 In general, a bow made of horn. Speciﬁcally, the name of Vishnu’s bow.
49 The text has the word avavritha. This is the ceremonial bathing at the end of any sacriﬁce, for purposes of puriﬁcation.
50 Yudhishthira’s name.
51 Drupada.
52 Subhadra’s son was Abhimanyu.
53 As has been mentioned before, the word nandana also means beloved. So, this can also be translated as—O beloved of the Kuru lineage!
54 The text says Tarkshya, which is one of Garuda’s names.
55 Parjanya. Indra is the god of rain, so Parjanya is one of Indra’s names. The word parjanya can also mean clouds in general and that translation, without invoking the god of rain, is also possible.
56 Indra.
57 Shakuni was the son of Subala, king of Gandhara.

--- Section 12 ---
--- Chapters 268(43) to 290(65) ---
1 The word used is nandana, which can also be translated as beloved.
2 Nagasahrya is another name for Hastinapura.
3 Duryodhana.
4 Yudhishthira. At the end of the last chapter, it was mentioned that only Duryodhana and Shakuni remained. Since the Pandavas were still there, this means that these were the only two among the invited guests who remained.
5 Duryodhana took the land to be water.
6 In this context, Yudhishthira.
7 Gaja, naga and hasti, all mean elephant. Gajasahrya is another name for Hastinapura.
8 Shakuni’s sister was Gandhari, Duryodhana’s mother.
9 Arjuna’s horses were white.
10 Yudhishthira.
11 The expression in the text translates as the onset of shuchishukra and there is repetition. Shuchi means the months of Jyeshtha and Ashada and would have sufﬁced. Shukra means the month of Jyeshtha.
12 Yadavas, the foremost one being Krishna.
13 Yudhishthira.
14 Yudhishthira.
15 The sons of Dhritarashtra, the Kouravas.
16 Ashvatthama.
17 Karna, who was brought up by a suta or charioteer. The charioteer’s wife was Radha, explaining Karna’s name of Radheya.
18 Kripacharya, who was descended from the Goutama lineage.
19 Bhurishrava, the son of Somadatta.
20 The Pandavas.
21 Dyuta is the act of playing or gambling. Here, the text uses the word for a dice, that is, aksha.
22 Referring to Dhritarashtra.
23 Yudhishthira.
24 Duryodhana’s mother was Gandhari.
25 The word nandana is again used, so it can also be translated as beloved of the Kuru lineage.
26 Also known as kadala.
27 A vatadhana is a brahmana, who has been born of a brahmana mother and a father who is a brahmana but an outcast.
28 A kharva is simply a very large number, 1 followed by 10 zeroes, or 10 billion.
29 Water pots used by ascetics.
30 The word used in the text is madhu.
31 The pots.
32 A reference to the Pandava conquests.
33 That is, large numbers of brahmanas were continuously being fed.
34 Kubera.
35 Of the dice.
36 Yudhishthira.
37 Shakuni.
38 Vidura.
39 The pros and cons of the decision.
40 The advent of kali yuga was imminent.
41 The word sons is being used in a broad sense, as the Pandavas are also like Dhritarashtra’s sons.
42 He went to Bhishma, Ganga’s son.
43 Vyasa’s student is Vaishampayana. Vaishampayana had recounted the story to Janamejaya. But it was retold again in Naimisha forest by Lomaharshana’s son Ugrashrava. The suta here is Ugrashrava, retelling the story for the beneﬁt of the sages.
44 The word used is mahakavi, or great kavi. Kavi is a wise one, the meaning of a poet is a secondary one.
45 Distant and divine lake.
46 Presumably Arjuna.
47 Yudhishthira’s.
48 This chapter, and the ones that follow, are repetitive. Duryodhana has already related this to Shakuni. He now recounts it to Dhritarashtra. One gets a clear sense that these chapters were later interpolations. They lack continu- ity and coherence.
49 A kind of antelope.
50 The word used is pilu.
51 The word used is shami.
52 The inguda nut.
53 Govasana brahmanas look after cattle and dasamiya brahmanas are ﬁt to be servants. When relating the story to Shakuni, Duryodhana mentioned vatadhana brahmanas.
54 Kamandalu.
55 In Gujarat today.
56 A kind of antelope.
57 That is, those who live in dry areas.
58 The word used is ashma, meaning either iron or stone. The word also means sapphire, but that use is rarer.
59 A reddish insect, sometimes identiﬁed with a ﬁreﬂy.
60 The text uses the word indrayudha, meaning Indra’s weapon. The speciﬁc weapon in question is the bow and the rainbow is known as Indra’s bow.
61 The word used is sandhya, which can mean evening as well as dawn.
62 These were wild horses that had been seized, as opposed to domestically bred horses.
63 Yudhishthira.
64 Identiﬁed as Scythians.
65 Inhabitants of Odra, today’s Orissa.
66 Identiﬁed as Bactria.
67 Ranku is a kind of antelope.
68 Rishti.
69 Implying the west.
70 Identiﬁed as Romans.
71 Arbuda.
72 Iron arrows.
73 It is not clear who this king is. It could be Bhagadatta, but Bhagadatta went away without entering.
74 The text uses the expressions kichaka and venu. The latter is bamboo, while the former is hollow bamboo.
75 The ants dug up the gold from the earth. Pipilika is an ant. There is a reference in Herodotus to ants that dug up gold in the desert regions.
76 The Brahmaputra.
77 A speciﬁc type of sandalwood.
78 Identiﬁed as Persians.
79 A river.
80 The kings.
81 Yajnasena’s daughter, Droupadi.
82 Droupadi, the princess of Panchala, was married to the Pandavas.
83 Vedanta is the end (anta) of the Vedas and usually refers to the Upanishads. The term is also used for the six schools of philosophy that followed.
84 Yudhishthira.
85 The king of Kamboja.
86 Shishupala.
87 Shishupala again.
88 Since Jarasandha had already been killed, this is Sahadeva.
89 The king of Pamshu.
90 Virata.
91 Of the chariot.
92 From the Vrishni lineage.
93 Alternatively, Asita-Devala. These are two ancient sages, Asita and Devala, who are always referred to together.
94 The actual act of coronation or anointing by sprinkling sacred water.
95 Parashurama.
96 Yudhisthira.
97 Yudhishthira.
98 This is a reference to the conquest of the Pandavas.
99 These eight didn’t become unconscious.
100 Pradyumna killed a demon named Shambara. Pradyumna was the son of Krishna and Rukmini. However, there is no account of this Pradyumna having undertaken any great sacriﬁces. But Pradyumna is also a name for Kama, or the god of love, and he is also known as the killer of Shambara. The reference could therefore be to Kama.
101 The Pandavas.
102 The Kouravas.
103 This is an odd statement, since Dhritarashtra is not reported to have had any other wives. Dhritarashtra probably means that Gandhari is older than Kunti and Madri.
104 The other sons.
105 A demon killed by Shakra (Indra).
106 Ajamidha is Dhritarashtra’s name, in addition to being Yudhishthira’s name.
107 Yudhishthira.
108 Some chapters, including this one, are repetition. Vidura has already been consulted in Chapter 45.
109 On which the game is played.
110 The word used is nandana.
111 The word used for a straw-mat is a kata and there is probably an unintended pun, since kata is also a partic- ular throw of the dice.
112 Assembly hall where the game will be played.
113 The servants.
114 A measure of distance equal to one-fourth of a yojana.
115 Yudhishthira.
116 Yudhishthira’s.
117 Vidura.
118 Dhritarashtra’s sons.
119 The word used is duradara. This means a gambler, which is probably what is intended. But the word also means the stakes used in gambling and the box in which dice are kept.
120 This can also be translated as cheats.
121 Alternatively, cheats.
122 Alternatively, cheats.
123 The sense is that Vidura is like a father and Vidura will have the welfare of the Pandavas in mind. There- fore, Yudhishthira will agree because of what Vidura says, not because of what Dhritarashtra wants.
124 Alternatively, shameless.
125 That is, robs the eye of sight.
126 Ashvatthama.
127 The fourth of the twenty-seven nakshatras, Aldebaran.
128 Dhritarasthra. The word father is to be interpreted in a broad sense.
129 Because he was blind.
130 This has been translated literally and the gesture is a sign of affection.
131 The word used is nandana.
132 Yudhishthira has already been welcomed.
133 Droupadi’s name.
134 They awoke.
135 The gamblers.
136 The sense is that Yudhishthira uses his wealth for the sake of brahmanas. Therefore, Shakuni should limit his winnings.
137 The gems were presumably pearls.
138 Gold is mentioned twice and two different words are used, hiranya and jatarupa. Since both words mean gold, the distinction between them isn’t clear. However, since hiranya also means a golden vessel, as distinct from gold, that might be the distinction. Alternatively, hiranya also means silver, or any other precious metal.
139 The word used is padmini, which can also mean that they have lotus marks on them. However, for ele- phants, padmini means the elephants are spotted. The word padmini also denotes a female elephant.
140 The word in the text actually means the shaft of a carriage or a plough, not any shaft.
141 That is, monsoon clouds.
142 The word used is kambukeyura. Keyura is an armlet or upper bracelet. Kambu means a conch shell or a bracelet. Therefore, ‘armlets made of conch shells’ is also an acceptable translation. However, armlets and bracelets seem more correct.
143 The number isn’t speciﬁed here, but clearly means one thousand or thousands.
144 The king of the gandharvas.
145 The one with the Gandiva as a bow. One of Arjuna’s names.
146 Vidura is addressing Dhritarashtra.
147 Shukracharya’s name. Shukracharya is the preceptor of the demons.
148 The collector of honey has climbed a tree and is liable to fall down.
149 Duryodhana.
150 There is a break in continuity in the critical edition. Some regional versions have an additional shloka, to the effect that it is normal royal practice to abandon an unworthy son.
151 Kamsa.
152 Duryodhana’s name.
153 That is, give up Duryodhana and resort to the Pandavas, and so on.
154 The name of a demon killed by Indra.
155 So that he could get all the gold at once.
156 Indra.
157 Shantanu’s father.
158 Without reproducing the Sanskrit, this is an impossible sentence (half of a shloka) to translate, because the meaning is obscure. In all probability, it is a reference to Yudhishthira, who is composed.
159 Probably a reference to Arjuna.
160 Yudhishthira’s name.
161 Shakuni was from Gandhara, a mountainous region.
162 The sense is that Vidura’s secret inclinations now stand revealed.
163 The creator.
164 The creator.
165 Vidura is now speaking to Duryodhana.
166 The word used is nandana.
167 Referring to the Pandavas.
168 Ten thousand. These large numbers are not stated in ascending (or descending) order.
169 A million.
170 Ten billion.
171 One thousand billion.
172 One hundred million.
173 One hundred billion.
174 A billion.
175 Of riches.
176 The Indus River.
177 The other four Pandava brothers.
178 Shakuni is the one who is not loved by Yudhishthira.
179 Arjuna.
180 Indra.
181 Krishna and Panchali are both Droupadi’s names.
182 Droupadi.
183 Yudhishthira.
184 A bamboo has fruit only when it is old.
185 This is an allusion to an old story that is not recounted completely in the text, perhaps because it was a fa- miliar one. Thieves stole a goat. But when they were ready to kill the goat, they couldn’t ﬁnd the knife, because it had got buried in the ground. So they set the goat free. Prancing around, the goat unearthed the knife and got slaughtered in the process.
186 The sense is that one who should know better, like the ascetic, is censured if he performs an evil act, but not one who cannot differentiate between good and evil.
187 Gourds are light and ﬂoat. Gourds sinking conveys a sense of impossibility.
188 The word used is pathya, which not only means advice, but also medicine and right diet.
189 The word pathya is used again.
190 The attendant, usher.
191 The attendant was of the suta class, that is, a charioteer and bard.
192 Yudhishthira’s house. Since he was in Duryodhana’s service, the attendant had no choice.
193 A reference to Duryodhana.
194 There seems to be a break in continuity in the text. The Pratikamin was Duryodhana’s servant and Yud- hishthira sent one of his own instead. As a result of this summons, Droupadi came to the assembly hall.
195 Meaning Dhritarashtra.
196 The Pratikamin.
197 Duryodhana’s.
198 Duhshasana. There is a logical incoherence in the text. In what follows, Duhshasana brings Droupadi to the assembly hall. In that case, she couldn’t already have been in the assembly hall, as a result of the summons sent by Yudhishthira through his trusted messenger. Different versions and different interpolations no doubt lead to this inconsistency.
199 Dhritarashtra.
200 Duhshasana.
201 Jishnu means the victorious one and is a name for Indra, Vishnu and also Arjuna. Hari is Vishnu’s name. Nara is an ancient sage, and also means a man. The words Nara and Narayana are often used for Arjuna and Krishna respectively.
202 The Pandavas.
203 Yudhishthira.
204 Yudhishthira.
205 This probably means Dhritarashtra, though Vidura could also have been intended.
206 Duryodhana.
207 Shakuni.
208 Sahadeva is being asked because he kept the sacriﬁcial ﬁre for the Pandavas.
209 Vikarna is one of Duryodhana’s brothers.
210 Drona.
211 Yudhishthira.
212 He grasped his own shining arms.
213 The word used is nandana.
214 The critical edition excises some shlokas that exist in regional versions and in popular renderings of the sto- ry. Droupadi prayed to Krishna and he ensured that Droupadi wasn’t stripped.
215 Referring to Duhshasana.
216 Virochana.
217 The ashvattha tree.
218 The witnesses are false witnesses.
219 Indra.
220 Droupadi.
221 Parshata is Drupada and his son is Dhrishtadyumna, Droupadi’s brother.
222 The spirit or soul has departed from these bodies.
223 Duryodhana.
224 If Yudhishthira has been won and has no independent identity or property, he uttered a lie in staking Droupadi. On the other hand, if Yudhishthira has not been won and has independent identity and property, he ut- tered a lie in staking himself. In either event, he is a liar.
225 Yudhishthira.
226 Dhritarashtra’s household.
227 Meaning Yudhishthira.
228 Yudhishthira.
229 Karna.
230 Karna was brought up by a suta, though he was Kunti’s son.
231 Yudhishthira.
232 Duryodhana was inviting Droupadi to come and sit on his left thigh, since the left thigh is the seat of the wife. The right thigh is the seat of daughters and daughters-in-law.
233 The expression used is yogakshema. Both these words have diverse meanings. However, kshema means pre- serving what has already been acquired and yoga means obtaining that which has not yet been acquired.
234 Duryodhana.
235 As an ill omen. The agnihotra is the maintenance of the sacred ﬁre in a house.
236 Gandhari is Subala’s daughter.
237 Kripacharya, who was descended from Goutama.
238 Dhritarashtra. Clearly, only Bhishma, Drona, Kripa, Vidura and Gandhari understood these to be ill omens.
239 Yudhishthira and Droupadi’s son.
240 An ancient sage.
241 In the sense of objectives or directions.
242 Bhima is now speaking to Yudhishthira.
243 Arjuna.
244 Or diet or regimen, the word used being pathya.
245 This is a repetition of what Arjuna has said.
246 Meaning the Kouravas.
247 Droupadi.

--- Section 13 ---
--- Chapters 291(66) to 297(72) ---
1 Duryodhana.
2 Duhshasana.
3 This is what Brihaspati said.
4 The Pandavas.
5 Yudhishthira.
6 Ashvatthama.
7 Though Vidura has already been mentioned by name, this means Vidura, who was the son of a vaishya woman.
8 Bhishma.
9 Vidura.
10 Alternatively, bridge.
11 Dhritarashtra’s name.
12 Dhritarashtra.
13 Yudhishthira’s.
14 Addressing Yudhishthira.
15 Ascetics who live in the forest.
16 Unlike proper ascetics.
17 Duhshasana.
18 Shakuni.
19 Duhshasana.
20 Bhima.
21 Yudhishthira.
22 Duryodhana.
23 A lion is the king of deer.
24 Yama’s name.
25 Bhishma.
26 One of Dhritarashtra’s sons.
27 Kunti.
28 A sage.
29 Parashurama.
30 Shiva.
31 A river.
32 This is speciﬁcally addressed to Yudhishthira.
33 The Kouravas and the Pandavas.
34 Droupadi.
35 She was in her menses.
36 The city of the elephant, another name for Hastinapura.
37 Vidura’s.
38 One shouldn’t forget that Dhritarashtra is blind.
39 Yudhishthira.
40 Some regional versions say bharya (wife) instead of the arya of the critical edition. Given the context, wives makes better sense.
41 Another name for the sacred kusa grass.
42 Parvani means the day of the full moon or the day of the new moon.
43 The Pandava kingdom.
44 Cannot be killed, is also a possible translation. But should not be killed, seems more appropriate.
45 This is speciﬁcally addressed to Duryodhana.
46 Sages. The story has been recounted in Volume 1.
47 Dhrishtadyumna.
48 Prishata is Drupada’s name.
49 From this it appears that Vidura is still describing the events to Dhritarashtra.
50 Drona.
51 Nothing happens to this instruction and there is disconnect with what happens next. The fortunate sons are the Pandavas and Vidura doesn’t go to try and bring them back. If they decide to go to the forest, Dhritarashtra is offering the Pandavas weapons, chariots and infantry. However, this doesn’t materialize. Both this chapter and the next seem to have been added on later.
52 Dhritarashtra’s charioteer.
53 She was born from the middle of the altar.
54 Duryodhana.
55 Droupadi was in her menses.
56 Sanjaya.

--- Section 14 ---
--- Chapters 298(1) to 308(11) ---
1 Droupadi.
2 Droupadi.
3 Yudhishthira’s charioteer.
4 Kripacharya, who was descended from Goutama.
5 Dhritarashtra.
6 Another name for the Ganga.
7 The sacriﬁcial ﬁre.
8 Yudhishthira.
9 The hour is terrible because demons are most powerful then.
10 The Pandavas.
11 That is, the brothers cannot ﬁnd means of subsistence for the brahmanas.
12 Samkhya is one of the six schools of philosophy, attributed to the sage Kapila. Both samkhya and yoga will be encountered later, in the Bhagavad Gita section. This entire section is reminiscent of the Bhagavad Gita.
13 Yoga has eight elements—yama (restraint), niyama (rituals), asana (posture), pranayama (breathing), pratya- hara (withdrawal), dharana (retention), dhyana (meditation) and samadhi (liberation). That’s the reason the ex- pression ashtanga (eight-formed) yoga is used.
14 Sacred texts that have been revealed, they have no author.
15 Sacred texts that have authors. They have been heard and memorized, and thus passed down the generations.
16 A royal sage, not to be confused with the Janaka who was Sita’s father.
17 Attachment is a more serious evil than the desire for material objects.
18 One who can see the faults of attachment, without withdrawing.
19 The thirst for material possessions.
20 The text does not state this explicitly. But this seems to be the place where Janaka’s quote ends.
21 Ascetics do not cook for themselves.
22 The grass or straw is for this.
23 The ground is for this.
24 To the guest, in the sense of paying attention to him or her.
25 Svapachas are chandalas or outcasts. Svapacha is sometimes translated as dog-eater, but this doesn’t follow. Unlike others, chandalas kept dogs and were accompanied by them. Svapacha can also mean someone who cooks in the company of dogs, or cooks for dogs.
26 Ten gods regarded as the sons of Vishva—Vasu, Satya, Kratu, Daksha, Kala, Kama, Dhriti, Kuru, Pururava and Madravashva. Alternatively, the food offerings on the ground are for the Vishvadevas (counted as one), Agni, Soma, Dhanvantari, Kuhu, Anumati, Prajapati, heaven, earth and Agni.
27 The mind and the ﬁve senses of hearing, touch, sight, taste and smell.
28 The way of the ancestors. Along this path, one has to be reborn.
29 The way of the gods. Along this path, one is freed and does not have to be reborn.
30 They do not have to be born again.
31 The sun-god.
32 Uttarayana, the movement of the sun to the north of the equator, the period from the winter to the summer solstice.
33 Dakshinayana, the movement of the sun to the south of the equator, the period from the summer to the winter solstice.
34 The moon.
35 Pungent, sour, sweet, salty, bitter and astringent.
36 This Bhima is not the same as Bhimasena.
37 The sun-god.
38 Of the sun.
39 The text actually says son of Aditi.
40 Actually, 109 names are mentioned, which means that one of these is an adjective rather than a proper name. But it is not possible to determine which one is the adjective.
41 One of the sun’s names, meaning one who gives light.
42 A prayer to the sun-god has been given and ends here.
43 At Yudhishthira’s prayers.
44 The critical edition excises some shlokas here. In these missing shlokas, the sun-god presents Droupadi with a copper vessel. Until Droupadi had eaten, the copper vessel would remain full and others could be fed. But once she had eaten, the vessel would become empty.
45 Yudhisthira had immersed himself in the water to pray to Surya.
46 Fruit, roots, meat and vegetables.
47 Vighasa means leftover food, or half-eaten morsels.
48 Prishata’s (Drupada) daughter, Droupadi.
49 Yudhishthira.
50 Dhritarashtra.
51 Since Dhritarashtra was blind, this means inner sight.
52 This sounds like a contradiction, because Dhritarashtra was tormented, but was happily seated. However, ty- pos in Sanskrit are also possible and sukha (happiness) can be confused with duhkha (unhappiness). Alternatively, happily might be an adjective referring to the comfortable seat, rather than Dhritarashtra’s state of mind.
53 Since Bhargava means descendant of Bhrigu, it is not clear who is meant. It could be either Shukracharya or Parashurama.
54 The Pandavas.
55 Referring to the Pandavas.
56 Dharma, artha and kama.
57 The Pandavas.
58 Duryodhana.
59 Yudhishthira.
60 Karna.
61 All three are famous rivers.
62 If the Gandiva is lost in such a match.
63 Ajamidha is a name that is usually used for Yudhishthira or Dhritarashtra. It is now being used for Vidura.
64 The word used is pathya, which also means the diet and regimen in times of illness.
65 Pathya again.
66 Yudhishthira.
67 The word used is nandana. So this can also be translated as beloved of the Kuru lineage.
68 Dhritarashtra.
69 Duryodhana.
70 Dhritarashtra’s.
71 Dhritarashtra.
72 That is, a neutral position.
73 Duryodhana.
74 When the Pandavas have been killed.
75 Vedavyasa.
76 Dhritarashtra.
77 The name of a famous cow that yielded everything one desired. Also, the divine cow that was the mother of all cows.
78 One of Indra’s names.
79 There are two bulls yoked to the plough.
80 Dhritarashtra had one hundred sons through Gandhari. In addition, he had Yuyutsu as a son, through a vaishya woman.
81 Dhritarashtra.
82 The forest region around Kurukshetra.
83 The word used can be translated more literally as the central pillar to which bulls are tethered when threshing work is undertaken.
84 The word used is nandana, so it can also be translated as beloved of the Kuru lineage.
85 Dasyus are a class of evil beings that are enemies of both man and god and were slain by Indra. The word also means outcast and bandit, or a villain in general.
86 The Pandavas.
87 Kirmira.
88 Prishata’s son. Prishata is Drupada and Drupada’s son is Dhrishtadyumna, Droupadi’s brother.
89 The sense is that only gods would contemplate such a confrontation.
90 The text says vayu, which means wind or air. There is probably a typo here. Touching the water is a prepara- tory ritual before a curse is pronounced. Therefore, instead of air, it should probably have been var, or water.

--- Section 15 ---
--- Chapters 309(12) to 309(12) ---
1 The Pandavas.
2 Cranes ﬂying in the cloud.
3 A bear is riksha. But riksha also means a star or constellation. More speciﬁcally, riksha originally meant Krit- tika or the Pleiades. Subsequently, it came to mean the constellation saptarshi or Great Dipper, part of Ursa Majoris or Great Bear. Because the text uses the singular, clearly either of the two speciﬁc constellations is meant.
4 Droupadi.
5 The story has been recounted in Section 10, Volume 1. Baka was killed in Ekachakra, but the capital of the kingdom was named Vetrakriyagriha.
6 Hidimba’s.
7 This great asura is Vatapi and the story of Agastya and Vatapi will be told in Section 33.
8 A vyama is a measure of length. It is the distance between the tips of the ﬁngers of the two hands, when the arms are extended out.
9 Bhima.
10 Indra.
11 Kirmira. Bhima hit Kirmira on the head with the tree.
12 Yama’s name, meaning the one with a staff (danda) in his hand (pani).
13 This is a story from the Ramayana.
14 Rahu’s name. Rahu swallows up the sun, causing an eclipse.
15 A reference to Pandu.
16 This suggests that the Dvaita forest was the same as the Kamyaka forest.
17 Yudhishthira.
18 Dhritarashtra.

--- Section 16 ---
--- Chapters 310(13) to 339(42) ---
1 Though the plural is used, this essentially means Dhrishtadyumna.
2 Krishna’s.
3 Arjuna.
4 Meaning, earlier lives.
5 This is not a literal translation. The text uses the word yatrasayamgriha. This means a hermit who ﬁnds a home (griha) wherever (yatra) evening (sayam) ﬁnds him. So that hermit has no home.
6 This is the hermitage (ashrama) of Badari, known also as Badarika and Badarikashrama. This is one of the several sources of the Ganga and the hermitages of Nara and Narayana are located there.
7 Naraka or Narakasura was a demon who was born from the earth (bhumi) and known as Bhoumya. He ruled in Pragjyotisha. He stole Aditi’s earrings. Krishna killed Naraka and recovered these earrings. Krishna also freed the 16,000 ladies Naraka had imprisoned.
8 Indra. Shachi is Indra’s wife.
9 Both Narayana and Hari are Vishnu’s names.
10 The moon.
11 The creator. This is also a name used for Brahma and Vishnu.
12 The ﬁre.
13 The wind.
14 Vaishravana is the son of Vishrava. Here, Kubera is meant.
15 Destiny, or time.
16 A sacriﬁce designed to ensure non-attachment.
17 Since the word used is nandana, this can also be translated as descendant of the Yadavas.
18 The twelve Adityas are sons of Aditi and in this list, Vishnu is younger than Indra.
19 This is a reference to Vishnu’s vamana or dwarf incarnation, explaining why the word child is used. Bali was a generous demon and granted the dwarf incarnation a boon. Using the three steps, the dwarf covered the three worlds and Bali had no option but to go to the underworld.
20 It is now impossible to know who the Mauravas and the Pashas were.
21 Not the Pandava Bhimasena.
22 Rukmini was the daughter of King Bhishmaka of Vidarbha, Bhoja being another name for Vidarbha. Rukmi- ni was to be married to Shishupala. But she loved Krishna and wrote him a letter. Krishna arrived with Balarama and defeated Rukmini’s brother Rukmi. Krishna then carried Rukmini away and married her.
23 The city of Dvaraka is on the ocean and the Yadavas moved from Mathura to Dvaraka.
24 The Dasharhas are the Yadavas.
25 The one without decay, Krishna’s name.
26 The rishis approach Krishna in their own hearts.
27 When there is destruction.
28 The word vairaja is used for anything belonging to the brahman.
29 Droupadi.
30 These words are being spoken by Droupadi.
31 Parashurama.
32 Because these rajarshis have overcome the desire to ﬁght.
33 She was in her menses.
34 Jaya is a synonym for wife and is derived from the root of being born.
35 The youngest is Sahadeva.
36 Duryodhana.
37 Duryodhana.
38 Bhimasena.
39 Duryodhana’s.
40 Kunti.
41 Duryodhana.
42 Yudhishthira.
43 The rakshasa woman is Hidimbaa, though we have written it as Hidimba. Her brother is Hidimba. But de- spite the names being written in the same way, there should be no confusion, since the context makes it clear whether brother or sister is meant.
44 Vasava is Indra and Vritra is a demon killed by Indra.
45 The lady Hidimbaa.
46 Kunti.
47 Droupadi. Krishna is really Krishnaa, while Vasudeva is Krishna. But there is no danger of confusion, since the context will make it clear whether it is Vasudeva or Droupadi.
48 Balarama.
49 Indra is the slayer of Vritra.
50 Krishna is speaking to Yudhishthira.
51 Dhritarashtra.
52 Dhritarashtra.
53 Virasena’s son is Nala, the story is recounted in Section 32.
54 Whatever remains of riches.
55 Kouravya refers to Yudhisthira here.
56 The word used is nandana. So, beloved of the Kuru lineage is also possible.
57 The word used is pathya, which can also be translated as diet or regimen.
58 The region of Sourashtra or Surat.
59 Satyaki’s name.
60 The word used is nandana. So, beloved of the Vrishni lineage is also possible.
61 Soubha was a city that ﬂew in the sky.
62 Krishna is actually Vaasudeva and the son of Vasudeva, though we have written both as Vasudeva. The con- text will make clear who is meant and there is no danger of confusion between father and son.
63 Those who live in the Anarta region.
64 Shishupala wasn’t Shalva’s brother. The use of the word brother therefore signiﬁes no more than that Shishu- pala was close to Shalva.
65 The word used is nandana. So, it can also be translated as beloved of the Kuru lineage.
66 Krishna’s conch shell.
67 One of Shishupala’s names.
68 The word used is nandana.
69 Soubha was airborne.
70 The word used is kachagrahani, meaning catchers or graspers (grahani) of hair (kacha) and it is difﬁcult to make sense of this, though it is possible to visualize war instruments that grasped enemy soldiers by the hair. The word might very well be chakragrahani, in which case one means instruments that grasp enemy soldiers. That would make better sense.
71 The word used is ushtrika, which means she-camel, as well as a vessel for storing wine or water and made in the shape of a she-camel. Given the context, water vessel seems more appropriate. Since elephants and horses are not being mentioned here, why should she-camels be speciﬁcally mentioned?
72 It is impossible to precisely determine what this weapon was, except that it could kill a hundred people at one time.
73 Measure of distance equal to one-fourth of a yojana.
74 To make it difﬁcult for the invading army.
75 That is, permission.
76 Ugrasena’s name.
77 Chariots, elephants, cavalry and infantry.
78 Anthills have snakes in them. The word chaitya has several meanings—sacriﬁcial shed, temple, altar, sanctu- ary and a tree that grows along the road.
79 The number nine can’t be explained, unless there were nine mountains around Dvaraka.
80 The word used is nandana.
81 Indra has one thousand eyes.
82 Samba was Jambavati’s son. Jambavati was one of Krishna’s wives.
83 Kshemavriddhi’s.
84 Indra.
85 Charudeshna.
86 Soubha ﬂew in the sky.
87 The word used is nandana.
88 Pradyumna. Both Pradyumna and Charudeshna were Rukmini’s sons. They were brothers.
89 Makara can be translated as crocodile, but that isn’t quite accurate. A makara is a mythical sea animal, bear- ing some resemblance to both a crocodile and a shark.
90 The makara.
91 Indra. This was the Bali who was humbled by Vishnu in his vamana incarnation.
92 Shalva.
93 That is, beneath their running feet.
94 The word used is nandana.
95 Daruka is Krishna’s charioteer. Daruki is Daruka’s son and is Pradyumna’s charioteer.
96 Souti is a suta’s son. A suta is a charioteer and also a bard or raconteur.
97 The word used is nandana.
98 Pradyumna.
99 Satyaki.
100 Kritavarma.
101 Krishna.
102 The word used is nandana.
103 The word used is nandana.
104 The word used is nandana.
105 Pradyumna.
106 Repulsing Shalva’s weapons.
107 Shalva.
108 Kubera.
109 The word used is nandana.
110 Kritavarma.
111 Ugrasena.
112 Vasudeva’s name, Krishna’s father.
113 More literally, the navel of the ocean.
114 Krishna’s bow, made of horn.
115 The word used is nataparva. Parva is the feathered shaft of the arrow and nata means bent or curved down.
116 The word prajna means intelligence or wisdom.
117 The word used is nandana.
118 Shura’s son is Vasudeva, Krishna’s father.
119 The word used is nandana.
120 Indra.
121 Krishna’s father Vasudeva.
122 This story has been recounted in Section 1, Volume 1.
123 The word used is shakuna, alternatively shakuni. Speciﬁcally, this is a vulture, kite or eagle. But the word can also be used for any bird in general.
124 There was no need to see the object, which was invisible.
125 Pragjyotisha is far to the east and Shalva has no association with Pragjyotisha. However, Pragjyotisha was associated with asuras. Or perhaps the idea is that Soubha travelled to the east, not necessarily all the way to Pragjyotisha.
126 There is a sudden jump and lack in consistency and continuity over whether Krishna used the agneya weapon or the chakra. The agneya weapon is left abruptly.
127 Sudarshana is the name of Krishna’s chakra.
128 Maheshvara is Shiva. Shiva destroyed Tripura, which was inhabited by demons.
129 Hastinapura, the city of the elephant.
130 Yudhishthira.
131 Yudhishthira was his senior in age.
132 The king is Yudhishthira. This is a sign of affection shown towards someone younger. Both Yudhishthira and Bhima were senior to Krishna in age.
133 Subhadra and Abhimanyu left with him. Subhadra was Krishna’s sister and Abhimanyu was the son of Ar- juna and Subhadra.
134 Name for the Yadavas in general. In this case, Krishna.
135 Prishata is Drupada’s name.
136 Shuktimati was the capital of Chedi. Dhrishtaketu’s sister Karenumati was married to Nakula.
137 Krishna is the lord of the Dasharhas.
138 Droupadi.
139 Dhoumya.
140 Literally, Bhutapati means the lord (pati) of beings (bhuta) and is one of Shiva’s names. The Pandavas looked like Shiva because they were dressed in skins and had matted hair.
141 They were already in the forest. So they left for another forest.
142 That is, the brahmanas.
143 This is odd. The text says pitan, which means yellow. Arrows can be yellow if they are made of brass, but that seems unlikely. Perhaps the text should have said diptan, meaning blazing or radiant. That ﬁts better.
144 Yudhishthira’s charioteer.
145 Droupadi.
146 Yudhishthira.
147 The citizens are saying this.
148 This is a reference to Arjuna.
149 Yudhishthira.
150 Droupadi.
151 Autumn as a synonym for year.
152 Vedavyasa.
153 Narada.
154 The ashoka tree.
155 Nipas and kadambas are the same trees, similar to the ashoka.
156 Tree similar to the shala.
157 Name of a tree.
158 Name of a tree.
159 Datyuhas and chakoras are similar birds, the former is the gallinule and the latter is the Greek partridge. Chakoras are believed to feed on moonbeams.
160 The Sarasvati river. Bhogavati is also the name of the Ganga in the nether worlds.
161 Yudhishthira.
162 Shakra is Indra. Heaven is a loose translation. The text says trivishtapa, meaning Indra’s world.
163 A charana is a singer or bard. But the word also means a pilgrim, more appropriate in this context.
164 Entered the forest.
165 Indra is the one with a thousand eyes. Indra defeated a demon named Maya and killed another demon named Namuchi.
166 Dasharatha’s son, Rama.
167 The word used is alarka, which means a mad or angry dog.
168 The name of a rishi.
169 Each name in the list is a lineage descended from a famous sage.
170 Prahlada’s son was Virochana and Virochana’s son was Bali. Vishnu appeared before Bali in his vamana (dwarf) incarnation in the form of a brahmana. But that apart, we don’t get to know details of the story about how Bali allied with brahmanas and later oppressed them.
171 That is, a kshatriya.
172 The text says an elephant without an ankusha or goad.
173 Yudhishthira.
174 The sacker of cities, Indra’s name.
175 Duryodhana.
176 Meaning Yudhishthira.
177 The word used is chira, which also means bark.
178 The many-armed Arjuna is Kartaviryarjuna, king of the Haihayas. He had a thousand arms because of a boon obtained from Dattatreya. He was Ravana’s contemporary and was eventually killed by Parashurama.
179 Bali is asking this. The word used is tata, which means father, but not only in the narrow sense. It can be used for any superior, including a grandfather.
180 The word used is tata again. This means not only son in the narrow sense, but anyone younger in a broad sense.
181 That is, punish.
182 Duryodhana.
183 Bhishma.
184 Drona.
185 Ashvatthama.
186 Duryodhana.
187 Dhata and Vidhata are often synonyms, standing for the creator. To the extent they are being listed separate- ly, Vidhata is more the creator and Dhata is more the preserver.
188 Signifying honoured ones.
189 Exclamations made when offering oblations to the gods.
190 Exclamations made when offering oblations to the ancestors.
191 The word used is louha and it can also be translated as copper.
192 An offering made to the vishvadevas, or gods in general, before meals.
193 Ishvara.
194 Ishana is being used here for the supreme god. Both Shiva and Vishnu are referred to as Ishana.
195 Duryodhana.
196 That is, wise.
197 Marichi was Brahma’s son and Kashyapa was Marichi’s son.
198 The word used is nihara, which also means dew. But mist seems more appropriate.
199 Those without life.
200 The idea of ascent doesn’t become very clear. It probably refers to ascent to a higher form of life after rebirth.
201 Vidhata.
202 Dhata.
203 Referring to that which one possesses.
204 Chance and destiny.
205 Implicitly, one who is an enemy.
206 This reference to the brahmana is irrelevant and is required only because Droupadi is a woman and there- fore, should not normally be so knowledgeable.
207 The preceptor of the gods.
208 Yudhishthira.
209 Arjuna.
210 Droupadi.
211 This is probably a reference to Dhrishtadyumna.
212 Dharma and kama.
213 This means the time of the day, dharma in the morning, artha during the day and kama in the evening.
214 Kama in the ﬁrst part of one’s life, artha in the subsequent stage and dharma at the end.
215 The word used is nandana. So it can also be translated as beloved of the Kuru lineage.
216 Born as a kshatriya.
217 Dhata.
218 Shalyaka, one with a spear. A hunter with a spear offers bait and obtains his food.
219 The asuras, speciﬁcally the daityas, are the offspring of Diti. The gods, speciﬁcally the adityas, are the off- spring of Aditi. Both Diti and Aditi were married to Kashyapa.
220 Duryodhana.
221 The word used is nandana. So it can also be translated as beloved of the Kuru lineage.
222 Hastinapura.
223 Indra killed Vritra.
224 The Panchalas.
225 Shakuni was from Gandhara, a mountainous region.
226 Ayuja is odd and yuja is even. These are numbers thrown up by the dice.
227 The word tata means son, but can be used for anyone who is a junior.
228 The word tata means father, but can also be used for anyone who is a senior. Duryodhana was younger to Yudhishthira.
229 The land of the ﬁve rivers, the region of the Punjab.
230 To express delight at the discomﬁture of the Pandavas.
231 The word used is kala. This means small fragment or fraction. But speciﬁcally, it also means a sixteenth part.
232 The word used is patatrina, which etymologically, means the one with wings. Speciﬁcally, patatrina means a bird or an arrow, but the latter ﬁts the text better.
233 Collyrium is a black pigment applied to the eye with a stick or pencil. The word sucha is used. This means needle, but it also means a pointed shoot or blade of kusa grass. Since collyrium is applied to the eye, blade of grass seems to be a better translation than needle.
234 Time.
235 A king.
236 Kunti.
237 Droupadi. Prativindhya is Droupadi’s son.
238 A kind of herb.
239 From violating the agreement.
240 Ashvatthama.
241 Vis-à-vis the Kouravas and the Pandavas.
242 Because they are in the employment of the Kouravas.
243 Karna.
244 Vyasa is Parashara’s son.
245 Kubera.
246 Yama.
247 The reference is to Nara, with whom Arjuna is often equated.
248 Lokapala literally means lord or protector (pala) of the world (loka). There are eight Lokapalas in charge of the eight directions and they are Indra, Agni, Yama, Nairita, Varuna, Marut (or Vayu), Kubera and Isha.
249 Pure arrows, probably means sharp arrows. But it could also mean non-poisonous arrows.
250 Dhanu means bow and veda means knowledge. But dhanurveda means the science of war. There are two reasons why dhanurveda has four parts, the ﬁrst being the fourfold division of the army into elephants, infantry, chariots and horses. The second concerns four types of weapons—mukta, amukta, muktamukta and yantramukta. Mukta weapons like a chakra were released from the hand. Amukta weapons like swords were never released from the hand. Muktamukta weapons like spears could either be released or held in the hand. And yantramukta weapons like arrows were released from an implement (yantra).
251 Ashvatthama.
252 The word used is tata, which can be used in the sense, among others, of any junior.
253 Indra’s name. Literally, the destroyer of cities.
254 Droupadi.
255 This is what he had been taught by Yudhishthira, who had in turn been taught by Vyasadeva.
256 Literally, Indra’s mountain.
257 Indra has a thousand eyes.
258 Shiva.
259 The Pandavas, that is, the other four Pandavas.
260 Arjuna’s.
261 Shiva’s name. Literally, the one with three eyes.
262 Shiva.
263 Arjuna was Indra’s son.
264 Vaidurya.
265 That is, he ate after a period of six nights was over.
266 The word used is nandana, meaning beloved as well as son.
267 A pinaka is both a trident and a bow. In particular, pinaka means Shiva’s bow. Shiva is known as Pinaki. He wields both a bow and a trident.
268 Shiva’s throat is dark because he consumed the poison thrown up during the churning of the ocean.
269 Sharva is one of Shiva’s names.
270 Shiva.
271 Kanchana means gold or golden. The word kanchana is applied to several different kinds of trees.
272 Shiva’s consort.
273 The sons of Diti were daityas or demons. Muka was a demon.
274 Referring to the boar.
275 The word used is naracha, which means an iron arrow.
276 The word used is nandana.
277 Arjuna’s.
278 So that Arjuna can see Shiva.
279 Lord (isha) of the mountains (giri), Shiva’s epithet.
280 Uma was with Shiva.
281 Shiva.
282 Kapardin is one of Shiva’s names. Kaparda or kapardaka means braided or matted hair and Shiva is named Kapardin because his hair is matted.
283 At the time of Daksha’s yajna, Shiva uprooted the god Bhaga’s eyes.
284 Shiva’s name, the one with a bull (vrishabha) on his banner (dhvaja).
285 An ayuta is ten thousand.
286 The hermitage at Badari or Badarika, one of the sources of the Ganga.
287 Vrishadhvaja and Vrishabhadhvaja mean the same.
288 Pashupati is Shiva’s name.
289 The word bhuta means beings, but it also means evil spirits.
290 Nagas and pannagas are serpents. They are different from snakes, because they possess extraordinary pow- ers, including that of assuming any form at will.
291 Karna is the son of the suta.
292 Kubera.
293 These divine weapons were based on mantras, the physical form was immaterial.
294 Arjuna.
295 Tryaksha is Shiva’s name, meaning the one with three (tri) eyes (aksha).
296 The word used is nirghata, which also means earthquake.
297 Shiva, the one with three eyes.
298 Arjuna.
299 Varuna.
300 Vaidurya.
301 Class of demigods.
302 Obviously meaning lesser gods.
303 This is a description of Yama.
304 Vivasvat is the sun and Dharmaraja Yama is the son of the sun.
305 Indrani is Indra’s consort, Shakra is Indra.
306 Indra’s elephant.
307 The moon is the lord of the stars.
308 The word used is nandana. So it can also be translated as beloved of the Kuru lineage.
309 Drona.
310 The nivatakavachas are demons. The story will be told in Section 35.
311 Yama is the son of the sun and so is Karna.
312 A reference to Krishna.
313 Danda.
314 The word used is nandana.
315 Pasha.
316 Famous battle that took place between the gods and the demons.
317 Antardhana means disappearance. This weapon enables the user to become invisible.
318 In its capacity to put the enemy to sleep, this weapon was also known as prasvapana.
319 The word used is nandana.
320 Ishana is the supreme god. Speciﬁcally, the term is used for both Shiva and Vishnu. It is being used in a general sense here.
321 Matali is the name of Indra’s charioteer.

--- Section 17 ---
--- Chapters 340(43) to 376(79) ---
1 A hudaguda is an iron club. However, an iron club cannot have wheels. So what is probably meant is some kind of battering-ram made out of iron.
2 Arjuna.
3 Indivara, a blue lotus.
4 Shakra is Indra and Arjuna was Indra’s son.
5 Daivata is a word used for the class of gods as a whole. In this context, it seems to mean the minor gods.
6 The word used is nandana. Hence alternatively, beloved of the Kuru lineage.
7 The word used is nandana.
8 The word used is vimana and vimanas are not ordinary chariots. They ﬂy through the sky and are therefore, divine chariots.
9 By implication, from the earth.
10 Famous king whose story will be recounted in Section 33.
11 The name of Indra’s garden.
12 Sacriﬁcial ﬁres.
13 Translated literally.
14 That is, have intercourse with the preceptor’s wife.
15 Ayuta, meaning ten thousand. But ayuta can also mean a large number.
16 Suravithi literally means the road (vithi) of the gods (sura) and could be a reference to the Milky Way.
17 The Vishvadevas.
18 King of the solar dynasty, often described as an ideal king.
19 The name of a gandharva.
20 The critical edition’s text has Ahuhu. It should read Huhu.
21 The word used is nandana.
22 Indra.
23 Vasava is Indra’s name.
24 Indra killed a demon named Vritra.
25 Demon killed by Indra.
26 The fourteenth day of the lunar fortnight. Though not explicitly stated, the reference is probably to the dark lunar fortnight.
27 Hava. Hava is not just any gesture, but a feminine coquettish gesture with amorous overtones.
28 Arjuna.
29 Water for washing the feet.
30 Water for washing the face.
31 The sense is that the vajra was like thunder and lightning. Consequently, there were clouds and peacocks ﬁg- ure because they dance when it rains.
32 The critical edition excises some sections that are part of popular renderings of the Mahabharata. That story ﬁgures in regional versions and is a story about the apsara Urvashi’s desire for Arjuna. Arjuna spurned her because she was like his superior’s wife or mother, the Puru dynasty having descended from Urvashi. Urvashi then cursed Arjuna that he would have to live as a woman, bereft of his manhood. Indra reduced the duration of the curse to one year.
33 The word used is vishtara. This means a seat, stool or chair. It is also the seat of the ofﬁciating priest at a sac- riﬁce, usually made of kusha grass.
34 Lomasha.
35 Alternatively, Badarika.
36 The story of Sagara will be told in Section 33. He had sixty thousand sons. When he performed a sacriﬁce, the sacriﬁcial horse was stolen by Indra and taken to the nether regions. The sons were sent in search of the horse and proceeded to dig towards the nether regions. They falsely accused the sage Kapila of stealing the horse and were burnt to ashes because of his rage. Subsequently, their souls were saved when their descendant Bhagiratha brought down the Ganga to the nether regions. The nether regions are often known by the name of patala. Howev- er, there are seven nether regions—atala, vitala, sutala, rasatala, talatala, mahatala and patala. Patala is thus the lowest of the seven nether regions and rasatala is an intermediate one.
37 A reference to Arjuna.
38 The word jvara should not be interpreted as physical fever only. It also means mental fever and distress.
39 The quotation marks signify that this is a message from Indra to Yudhishthira.
40 Dhritarashtra was Ambika’s son.
41 The word used is gramya, which means vulgar, as well as rustic.
42 Yudhishthira.
43 The word used (ghrini) means both compassionate and contemptible. Since Karna is being described disap- provingly, contemptible is more appropriate than compassionate.
44 The preceptor is Drona. Since Drona is Arjuna’s teacher, the implication is that Drona will not ﬁght properly with Arjuna.
45 The word used is tata. While this means son, it can generally be used for anyone who is a junior.
46 Sthanu is Shiva’s names. Shiva has eleven manifestations in the form of the eleven Rudras.
47 Meaning Duryodhana.
48 Krishna.
49 The Yadavas.
50 That is, brahmanas who maintained the sacriﬁcial ﬁre.
51 That is, killed the deer.
52 Yudhishthira.
53 Balarama.
54 This is odd. Choosing a charioteer for Arjuna is premature and the question shouldn’t arise at this stage. This reinforces the general impression that this chapter was a later addition and doesn’t quite belong.
55 Balarama.
56 Shishupala’s son is Dhrishtaketu.
57 Yudhishthira.
58 Droupadi.
59 The word used is devi. This is a honoriﬁc form of address and doesn’t mean goddess alone.
60 Speciﬁcally, the hair.
61 Balarama.
62 Satyaki.
63 Droupadi.
64 This should really be thirteen years.
65 The word used is tata. This means father, but is also used for any elder or superior.
66 Alternatively, childish.
67 This is being addressed to Yudhishthira. So Achyuta is in the sense of one without decay.
68 A mixture based on honey that is offered to guests. It is made of ﬁve ingredients—curds, clariﬁed butter, wa- ter, wax and candied sugar.
69 Yudhishthira.
70 There were fourteen Manus, who were lords of the earth in fourteen different eras. Because of descent from Manu, a human is known as manava.
71 Though not explicitly stated, Bhima was the king of Vidarbha. This Bhima is not to be confused with the Pandava Bhima.
72 Obviously this means the three sons.
73 The god of love.
74 Damayanti’s.
75 Nala was the king of Nishadha.
76 Of his palace.
77 Or geese.
78 Meaning the capital city of Vidarbha, named Kundina.
79 Indra.
80 Maghavan is Indra’s name.
81 Bala and Vritra were demons killed by Indra.
82 The lords (pala) of the worlds (loka) are eight in number—Indra, Vahni (Agni), Yama, Nairrita, Varuna, Maruta, Kubera and Isha (Ishana). Sometimes, Vayu is listed instead of Indra. However, especially since Agni is mentioned separately, in this context, the word lokapala is being used in a less speciﬁc sense. As will become clear later, only Indra, Agni, Varuna and Yama are meant.
83 The god of love, Kandarpa is another of his names.
84 That is, they gave up the intention of soliciting Damayanti for themselves.
85 Varuna.
86 That is, will have to kill myself.
87 A reference to Indra.
88 The thirty gods.
89 Bhogavati is the capital city of the nagas and is located in the nether regions.
90 The four gods, Shakra, Agni, Varuna and Yama had assumed forms that were identical to that of Nala.
91 Indra.
92 Punyashloka is one of Nala’s epithets.
93 That is, divine marks. Gods do not perspire. Nor do their eyes blink. Their feet do not touch the ground and they do not have any shadows.
94 As a mark of choosing him.
95 Each of the four gods gave two boons.
96 Indra.
97 Agni.
98 Agni.
99 Varuna.
100 Yayati ﬁgures in several sections, such as Section 33.
101 In the four yuga cycle, dvapara and kali are the third and the fourth yuga, with dharma progressively declin- ing as one moves down the yugas. Here, the third and the fourth yugas have been personiﬁed.
102 Dvapara is also the side of a dice marked with two points, satya or krita with four points, treta with three points and kali with one point.
103 Enter Nala’s body. An act of sin would permit Kali to enter Nala’s body and make Nala addictive towards gambling and dice.
104 The word used is sandhya, which means both dawn and dusk, and the attendant ceremonies. In the transla- tion, we have used the evening sense.
105 Pushkara was Nala’s brother. The word pushkara also means intoxication.
106 This imagery is difﬁcult to understand. It probably means that Kali became the chief dice with which the game would be played.
107 The bull is the dice with Kali inside it.
108 Damayanti.
109 The words hiranya and suvarna are separately used. However, hiranya also means silver or any other pre- cious metal. Since the two words are separately used, we have translated hiranya as silver.
110 Nala’s charioteer Varshneya.
111 Nala and Damayanti’s son and daughter.
112 Kundina is the capital of Vidarbha, that is, Damayanti’s father’s capital.
113 That is, Indrasenaa, to distinguish from the boy Indrasena.
114 Outside the city.
115 Nala.
116 The ﬂesh would be his food and the plumage his riches.
117 The southern part of India, the region of the Deccan.
118 Damayanti had shared her garment with Nala.
119 The word used is sabha. This means an assembly hall or council. It also means a place where gambling oc- curs. But it is also generally used for any place frequented by the public.
120 That is, she became tired.
121 An ajagara. An ajagara is so named because it swallows goats (aja).
122 The word used is graham, normally used for a crocodile or shark.
123 The word used is lubdhaka, which means a hunter, but can also be a proper name. It also means someone who is covetous.
124 Kind of tree.
125 The sacred ﬁg tree.
126 Kind of tree.
127 Tree used for medicinal purposes.
128 Tree with red blossoms.
129 Kind of tree.
130 The soap-berry tree.
131 Sandalwood trees.
132 The silk-cotton tree.
133 The rose-apple tree.
134 Tree with red or white ﬂowers.
135 Kind of tree.
136 Teak.
137 Kind of plant.
138 Myrobalan.
139 Fig trees.
140 Flowering tree.
141 Kind of tree.
142 The jujube tree.
143 Indian ﬁg tree.
144 Name of a tree, also known as piyala.
145 Palmyra trees.
146 Date trees.
147 A green herb.
148 Kind of myrobalan tree.
149 Nala.
150 Kind of tree with fragrant blossoms.
151 Name of a tree with fragrant blossoms, also known as nagakeshara.
152 Nala.
153 That is, maintains the sacriﬁcial ﬁre.
154 More speciﬁcally, follows the Vedas.
155 It is not obvious what Dramida is. It could be that Dravida is meant. Alternatively, there might be a typo, because some regional versions have parvata instead of Dramida. In that case, the tree would be compared to a king of the mountains.
156 The ashoka tree has red ﬂowers and is believed to blossom when it is struck by the feet of beautiful women. Shoka means sorrow and the tree’s name literally means without sorrow. It is so named because it removes sorrow from the mind of anyone who looks at the tree. That’s the reason Damayanti asks the tree to alleviate her sorrow.
157 In accordance with your name.
158 The ruddy goose.
159 The feminine of yaksha and rakshasa respectively.
160 The elephants who were part of the caravan.
161 A sairandhri is a female servant who works in the inner quarters and is therefore superior to a common slave girl. This was also the name Droupadi used when she became a servant to Sudeshna, King Virata’s wife. By describing herself as a sairandhri, Damayanti is signifying her desire to work in the palace.
162 Nala had a boon that a ﬁre would do him no harm.
163 This is a reference to Kali, who is inside Nala.
164 The sense is not clear. Perhaps it is a reference to those who possessed secret knowledge.
165 Rituparna was the king of Ayodhya.
166 Rituparna’s charioteers. Varshneya is Nala’s old charioteer, who has found employment with Rituparna.
167 Manmatha is the god of love and Rati is his consort.
168 Rahu is a demon who sought to drink amrita, but was caught, and resolved vengeance on the sun and the moon. Consequently, as one of the nine planets, Rahu swallows up the sun and the moon at the time of eclipses.
169 Rohini is the fourth nakshatra. While all the nakshatras are married to the moon, Rohini is the favourite wife.
170 A birthmark. Alternatively, a mole.
171 It was a palanquin.
172 Another name for Rituparna.
173 Sudeva.
174 Avarta, an auspicious lock of hair on the back of a horse, curling backwards.
175 A famous authority who wrote about horses.
176 This is strange, because Bahuka is deformed.
177 Since Varshneya is Nala’s old charioteer, he knows Nala well. The only difﬁculty is that Nala’s form is now different.
178 Bahuka.
179 Of reaching Vidarbha in time.
180 Meaning Damayanti.
181 The capital of Vidarbha.
182 The ones that were in Vidarbha, not the ones Nala was driving.
183 It is not clear what this means. Perhaps it means that Nala has never made excessive demands on Damayan- ti. Perhaps it means that Nala has behaved like an impotent person towards other women.
184 Of the palace.
185 Was not known to Bhima. So Bhima wondered why Rituparna had suddenly come.
186 This is the daughter Indrasenaa. The son is Indrasena. But given the way names have been written in this translation, Indrasenaa is also written as Indrasena.
187 With a message.
188 To Bhima.
189 Nala had held it in trust.
190 Bahuka (Nala) could no longer be his charioteer. Varshneya was Nala’s charioteer and would therefore stay on with Nala.
191 The word used is ayuta, meaning ten thousand. But here, many years, rather than a precise number, are meant.
192 Nala.
193 Pushkara.
194 One of the seven continents (dvipa) that surround Mount Meru. Bharatavarsha is part of Jambudvipa.
195 Droupadi.
196 Yudhishthira.
197 A sacred tirtha.
198 Yudhishthira.
199 Jaya is one of Arjuna’s names and means victory. Jaya is also one of Yudhishthira’s names.
200 Meaning the other Pandavas.
201 Kubera’s park or pleasure garden.
202 Yudhishthira.
203 The many-armed Arjuna is Kartavirya Arjuna, the king of the Haihayas who was killed by Parashurama.
204 Pundarikaksha means lotus-eyed, since pundarika is a white lotus and aksha means eye. Pundarikaksha is a proper name for Vishnu, and Krishna. Pundarikaksha is not quite a proper name for Arjuna, unless he is equated with Vishnu or Krishna. Perhaps Droupadi simply means that Arjuna has eyes like those of a lotus.
205 Vasava is Indra and Arjuna is Indra’s son.
