SECTION ONE
SECTION TWO
SECTION THREE
SECTION FOUR
SECTION FIVE
SECTION SIX

Section Sixty-Seven Abhimanyu-Vadha Parva
This parva has 643 shlokas and twenty chapters. Chapter 7009(32): 26 shlokas This section is about the killing of Abhimanyu, the son of Arjuna and Subhadra. These are incidents that occur on the thirteenth day of the battle. Drona constructs the chakra vyuha1 and Abhimanyu alone knows how to penetrate it, Arjuna having been summoned away by the samshaptakas.2 When Abhimanyu penetrates the vyuha, the others on the Pandava side are supposed to follow and protect him. However, they are restrained by Jayadratha, who has obtained a boon from Shiva. Abhimanyu kills the younger brothers of Shalya and Karna, Vasatiya, Shalya’s son (Rukmaratha), one hundred princes, Duryodhana’s son (Lakshmana), Kratha’s son, Vrindaraka, Brihadbala (the king of Kosala), six of Karna’s advisers, Ashvaketu (from Magadha), Martikavata (from Bhoja), Shatrunjaya, Chandraketu, Mahavega, Suvarcha, Suryabhasa, Kalakeya (Shakuni’s brother) and rathas3 from the Brahma-Vasatiyas and Kekayas. Abhimanyu is then killed by Duhshasana’s son. On return, Arjuna takes an oath to kill Jayadratha on the next day.

Section Sixty-Eight Pratijna Parva
This parva has 365 shlokas and nine chapters. Chapter 7029(52): 33 shlokas The word pratijna means vow or promise and this section is named after Arjuna’s vow to kill Jayadratha. There is no fighting in this section, the events transpiring between the night of the thirteenth day and the morning of the fourteenth. Arjuna obtains the pashupata weapon from Shiva.

Section Sixty-Nine Jayadratha-Vadha Parva
This parva has 2974 shlokas and sixty-one chapters. Chapter 7038(67): 57 shlokas The word vadha means death or killing and this section is named after the death or killing of Jayadratha. The Kouravas make arrangements to protect Jayadratha. Though Arjuna fights with Drona and Kritavarma, he is really interested in Jayadratha. Shrutayudha of Kalinga is killed. Arjuna kills Sudakshina of Kamboja, Shrutayu, Achyutayu, Ayutayu, Dirghayu and another Shrutayu (from Ambashtha). Drona fastens invincible armour on Duryodhana. Arjuna kills Vinda and Anuvinda from Avanti. Brihatkshatra (of Kekaya) kills Kshemadhurti, Dhrishtaketu kills Viradhanva (from the Trigartas), Sahadeva kills Niramitra (from the Trigartas), Satyaki kills Vyaghradatta (from Magadha), Shatanika (Nakula’s son) kills Shala (Somadatta’s son), Ghatotkacha kills Alambusa, Drona kills many on the Pandava side, Satyaki kills Jalasanda (of Magadha) and Sudarshana, Drona kills several Panchala princes, Brihatkshatra (from Kekaya), Shishupala’s son Dhrishtaketu (from Chedi) and his son, Jarasandha’s son, Kshatradharma (Dhrishtadyumna’s son), Bhima kills several of Duryodhana’s brothers, Satyaki kills Alambusa, Arjuna and Satyaki kill Bhurishrava. Finally, Arjuna kills Jayadratha.

Section Seventy Ghatotkacha-Vadha Parva
This parva has 7642 shlokas and thirty-three chapters. Chapter 7099(722): 88 shlokas This section is named after the death or killing of Ghatotkacha by Karna. When Jayadratha is killed on the fourteenth day of the war, the battle continues to rage through the night. Drona kills King Shibi of Kashi, Bhima kills the princes of Kalinga and some of Duryodhana’s brothers, Ashvatthama kills Anjanaparva (Ghatotkacha’s son) and several warriors on the Pandava side, Bhima kills Bahlika, Karna’s brother and Shakuni’s brothers, Ashvatthama kills many Panchalas, Satyaki kills Somadatta and Bhuri, Shalya kills Shatanika (Virata’s brother), Dhrishtadyumna kills Drumasena, Ghatotkacha kills Alambala (Jatasura’s son) and the rakshasa Alayudha and finally, Karna kills Ghatotkacha with the spear that he has saved for Arjuna.

Section Seventy-One Drona-Vadha Parva
This parva has 692 shlokas and eleven chapters. Chapter 7732(755): 30 shlokas This section is named after the death or killing of Drona. The fight continues in the night and day dawns on the fifteenth day of the war. Drona kills three of Drupada’s grandsons and Drupada and Virata. He causes great destruction. Bhima kills an elephant named Ashvatthama and Bhima and Yudhishthira tell Drona that Ashvatthama has been killed. When Drona casts aside his weapons, he is killed by Dhrishtadyumna and Ashvatthama is told the news.

Section Seventy-Two Narayana Astra Moksha Parva
This parva has 538 shlokas and eight chapters. Chapter 7743(766): 60 shlokas This section is named after the release (moksha) from the divine narayana weapon. Angry at Drona’s death, Ashvatthama invokes the naryana astra, which was obtained from Narayana. This weapon cannot be countered by fighting and Krishna advises the Pandavas to lay down their weapons. Ashvatthama then kills Pourava Vriddhakshatra, Sudarshana from Malava and the prince of Chedi. Asvatthama’s divine weapons are countered by Krishna and Arjuna. The section ends with the praise of Shiva. This section also ends Drona Parva and the fifteenth day of the war.

