SECTION ONE
SECTION TWO
SECTION THREE
SECTION FOUR
SECTION FIVE
SECTION SIX
SECTION SEVEN
SECTION EIGHT
SECTION NINE
SECTION TEN
SECTION ELEVEN
SECTION TWELVE
SECTION THIRTEEN
SECTION FOURTEEN

Section One Anukramanika Parva
This parva has 270 shlokas and only one chapter. Tt was clearly a later addition and sets out the background for the recital of the story and summarizes the main incidents, not once, but twice.

Section Two Parvasamgraha Parva
This parva has 243 shlokas and one chapter. Tt too was clearly a later addition. Tt gives two listings of the Mahabharata in the eighteen-parva and the 700-parva classifications. There is also a very brief summary of the highlights of the story.

Section Three Poushya Parva
This parva has 795 shlokas and one chapter. Tt is the story of Poushya. After the first two sections, which are really summaries and no more, Section 3 is where the main story of the Mahabharata should begin. But not only is this section mostly in prose, unlike the rest of the Mahabharata, it has little to do with the main story, since it has all kinds of incidents that don’t quite belong. All this section does is set up the snakesacrifice.

Section Four Pouloma Parva
This parva has 753 shlokas and nine chapters. The meat of the Mahabharata doesn’t start in this parva, since one is still on the snakesacrifice. Tndeed, this parva is mostly about the Bhargava lineage, descended from the great sage Bhrigu. Bhrigu’s son was the famous Shukra or Shukracharya and so was the sage Chyavana. Bhrigu married Puloma and anyone descended from Puloma is called Pouloma. That is how this parva obtains its name. The chapters in this parva take us down Bhrigu’s lineage, through Chyavana, Pramati, Ruru and Shunaka.

Section Five Astika Parva
This parva has 7025 shlokas and forty-one chapters. Tt is one of the longer parvas and is about the snakesacrifice, which provides the setting where the Mahabharata story was told. The parva is named after a sage named Astika, who saved the snakes (the major ones) from the snakesacrifice.

Section Seven Sambhava Parva
This parva comprises 2394 shlokas and sixty-five chapters. The word sambhava means what can originate or be in existence. Hence, this parva is about the origins of the core story. Tt is one of the long-est parvas.

Section Eight Jatugriha-daha Parva
This parva has 373 shlokas and fifteen chapters. Jatu is lac and griha is house. This parva is about the burning down of the house of lac.

Section Nine Hidimba-vadha Parva
This parva has 769 shlokas and six chapters. Vadha means to slay or kill and this parva is about the killing of the rakshasa Hidimba.

Section Ten Baka-vadha Parva
This parva has 206 shlokas and eight chapters. This parva is about the killing of a demon named Baka.

Section Eleven Chaitraratha Parva
This parva has 557 shlokas and twenty-one chapters. The parva is named after Chitraratha, a gandharva, whose stories figure in this section.

Section Twelve Droupadi-svayamvara Parva
This parva has 263 shlokas and twelve chapters. Svayamvara is a form of marriage where the bride chooses her own groom. The parva is about Droupadi choosing her own groom.

Section Thirteen Vaivahika Parva
This parva has 755 shlokas and six chapters. Vivaha means wedding and this parva is about Droupadi’s marriage.

Section Fourteen Viduragamana Parva
This parva has 774 shlokas and seven chapters. Agamana means arrival or coming and this parva is about Vidura’s arrival.

Section Fifteen Rajya-labha Parva
This parva has a single chapter and there are only fifty shlokas. Rajya-labha means the acquisition of the kingdom.

