SECTION ONE
SECTION TWO
SECTION THREE
SECTION FOUR
SECTION FIVE
SECTION SIX
SECTION SEVEN
SECTION EIGHT
SECTION NINE
SECTION TEN
SECTION ELEVEN
SECTION TWELVE
SECTION THIRTEEN
SECTION FOURTEEN
SECTION FIFTEEN
SECTION SIXTEEN
SECTION SEVENTEEN

Section Sixteen Arjuna-vanavasa Parva
This parva has 298 shlokas. This parva has 77 chapters, Chapters 200 through 270. The word vana means forest and the word vasa means to live. So this parva is about Arjuna’s sojourn in the forest and begins with the reasons for his banishment. Tt recounts his marriage to Ulupi and Chitrangada. This parva also has the Sunda and Upasunda story.

Section Seventeen Subhadra-harana Parva
This parva has fifty-seven shlokas and two chapters. The word harana means abduction. So this parva is about Subhadra’s abduction. This is a very short parva.

Section Eighteen Harana Harika Parva
This parva has eighty-two shlokas and only one chapter. The word harana means abduction. Tt also means gifts. Harika means conveying or giving. So this parva is about Subhadra’s abduction and the giving of gifts that followed.

Section Nineteen Khandava-daha Parva
This parva has 344 shlokas and twelve chapters. Chaper 279: 40 shlokas The word daha means to burn and, as a noun, also means a fire or a conflagration in the forest. So this parva is about the burning of the Khandava forest by Arjuna and Krishna. Tt has also stories of the survivors, Ashvasena, Maya and the Sharngaka birds.

Section Twenty Sabha Parva
This parva has 429 shlokas and eleven chapters. The name of the first section within this parva is also the same as the name of the parva. The word sabha having already been explained.

Section Twenty-One Mantra Parva
This parva has 222 shlokas and six chapters. The word mantra has different meanings, but here it means a process of consultation. This section is therefore about a process of consultation prior to the royal sacrifice.

Section Twenty-Two Jarasandha-vadha Parva
This section has 795 shlokas and five chapters. The word vadha is the act of killing. This section is therefore about the killing of Jarasandha.

Section Twenty-Three Digvijaya Parva
This section has 797 shlokas and seven chapters. The word digvijaya means the conquest of the directions, that is, the conquest of the world. This section is therefore about the conquest undertaken by the Pandavas.

Section Twenty-Four Rajasuya Parva
This section has ninety-seven shlokas and three chapters. This section is about the rajasuya or royal sacrifice.

Section Twenty-Five Arghabhiharana Parva
This section has ninety-nine shlokas and four chapters. Argha (or arghya) is an offering made as a sign of veneration. Abhiharana is the act of fetching or taking. So arghabhiharana parva is about the offering of a gift, as a sign of respect, and the consequent dispute.

Section Twenty-Six Shishupala-vadha Parva
This section has 797 shlokas and six chapters. Since vadha means killing this section is about the killing of Shishupala.

Section Twenty-Seven Dyuta Parva
This section has 734 shlokas and twenty-three chapters. Dyuta means playing or gambling with dice, and also the resultant prize. So this section is about the gambling with dice.

Section Twenty-Eight Anudyuta Parva
This sections has 232 shlokas and seven chapters. As has been mentioned in the earlier section, the word dyuta means playing or gambling with dice, and also the resultant prize. The word anu means after, behind, or in consequence of. So this section is about the aftermath of the gambling match.

Section Twenty-Nine Aranyaka Parva
This section has has 327 shlokas and eleven chapters. The first section within Aranyaka Parva is also called Aranyaka Parva, the word aranyaka having already been explained.

Section Thirty Kirmira-vadha Parva
This section has 75 shlokas and only one chapter.
Kirmira was a rakshasa mentioned in the last section and as already explained the word vadha means killing. So this section is about the killing of Kirmira.

Section Thirty-One Kairata Parva
This section has 7750 shlokas and thirty chapters. Kiratas, as mentioned earlier, are mountain-dwellers who make a living through hunting. This section is so named because Shiva assumed the form of a kirata and fought with Arjuna.

Section Thirty-Two Indralokabhigamana Parva
This section has 7775 shlokas and thirty-seven chapters. Indraloka means Tndra’s world and abhigamana means to go or visit. So this section is about the visit to Tndra’s world, meaning Arjuna’s visit to Tndra’s world.

