SECTION ONE
SECTION TWO
SECTION THREE
SECTION FOUR
SECTION FIVE
SECTION SIX
SECTION SEVEN
SECTION EIGHT
SECTION NINE
SECTION TEN
SECTION ELEVEN
SECTION TWELVE
SECTION THIRTEEN
SECTION FOURTEEN
SECTION FIFTEEN

Section Forty-Five Vairata Parva
This section has 282 shlokas and twelve chapters. This section is named after Virata. Virata is the proper name, whereas Vairata is the adjective. Tn Section 44 (Volume 3), at the end of Aranyaka (Vana) Parva, a brahmana’s kindling was robbed by a deer and the Pandavas pursued the deer. This section takes off from there. The Pandavas decide to spend the thirteenth year in disguise in King Virata’s kingdom. Tn individual disguises, the Pandavas and Droupadi arrive in King Virata’s court and are accepted by him. Yudhishthira becomes Kanka, Bhima becomes Ballava, Arjuna becomes Brihannada, Nakula becomes Granthika, Sahadeva becomes Tantipala and Droupadi becomes Sairandhri.

Section Forty-Six Kichaka-Vadha Parva
This section has 353 shlokas and eleven chapters. Vadha means to kill and is also the act of slaying. Kichaka is Virata’s general and Sudeshna’s brother and lusts after Droupadi. Kichaka is killed by Bhima, which explains the name of this section.

Section Forty-Seven Go-Grahana Parva
This section has 7009 shlokas and thirty-nine chapters. Go means cattle and grahana means to seize. So this section is about seizing cattle. With Kichaka’s death, Virata is weakened and the Kouravas and Trigartas invade Matsya to rob Virata of his cattle. Virata is defeated by Susharma, the king of the Trigartas. However, the four Pandavas (Yudhishthira, Bhima, Nakula, Sahadeva) defeat Susharma and free Virata. Meanwhile, the Kurus rob Virata’s kingdom of sixty thousand cattle. However, they are defeated by Arjuna, with Uttara as a charioteer. The Kurus return and the cattle are regained.

Section Forty-Eight Vaivahika Parva
This section has 779 shlokas and five chapters. Vivaha means wedding. After defeating the Kurus and winning back the cattle, Arjuna and Uttara return. The Pandavas reveal themselves. Arjuna and Subhadra’s son, Abhimanyu, is married to Virata’s daughter, Uttara.

Section Forty-Nine Udyoga Parva
This section is also known as Udyoga Parva. Tt has 575 shlokas and twenty-one chapters. There are consultations in Drupada’s court about the next course of action. Tn preparation for war, the Kurus and the Pandavas send word to their allies. However, Drupada’s priest is sent to the Kurus as a messenger. Duryodhana and Arjuna go to Krishna to seek his help. Arjuna opts for the unarmed Krishna, who will not take part in the fight and Duryodhana happily accepts Krishna’s large army. Balarama says that he will remain neutral, while Kritavarma helps Duryodhana. Duryodhana persuades Shalya to switch to the Kourava side. However, Shalya promises Yudhishthira that he will distract Karna when Karna and Arjuna fight. Shalya tells the Pandavas the story of Trishira, Vritra, Tndra and Nahusha. The Kouravas assemble eleven akshouhinis of soldiers, while the Pandavas assemble seven akshouhinis. Drupada’s priest delivers the message. Dhritarashtra promises to reflect on this and send Sanjaya back as a messenger.

Section Fifty Sanjaya-Yana Parva
This section has 377 shlokas and eleven chapters. The word yana means going or voyage. So this parva is about Sanjaya’s journey as a messenger. Dhritarashtra sends Sanjaya as an emissary to the Pandavas. This mission doesn’t succeed, though Krishna says that he will go as a messenger to the Kouravas. Yudhishthira asks for five villages (through Sanjaya). Sanjaya returns to Hastinapura.

Section Fifty-One Prajagara Parva
This section has 547 shlokas and nine chapters. Prajagara means sleeplessness, lying awake at night. This parva is so named because Dhritarashtra cannot sleep at night. He still does not know Yudhishthira’s message and summons Vidura. Vidura advises Dhritarashtra.

Section Fifty-Two Sanatsujata Parva
This section has 727 shlokas and four chapters. This section is named after Dhritarashtra’s questioning of the sage Sanatsujata. Sanatsujata instructs Dhritarashtra.

Section Fifty-Three Yana-Sandhi Parva
This section had 726 shlokas and twenty-four chapters. Yana means moving or journey as a verb and conveyance as a noun. Sandhi means both connection and peace or alliance. So the name of this parva can be interpreted in two different ways, and both are correct. First, there is the straightforward meaning of a journey (Sanjaya’s) for peace. Second, this section is the connecting section between two separate journeys, Sanjaya’s and Krishna’s. Sanjaya conveys Arjuna’s message and there is a discussion in the assembly of the Kurus. Karna refuses to fight until Bhishma has fallen. The section ends inconclusively, with a reference to Krishna’s impending mission.

Section Fifty-Four Bhagavat-Yana Parva
This section has 2055 shlokas and sixty-eight chapters Yana means moving or journey as a verb and conveyance as a noun. The parva is so named because Krishna (Bhagavan) goes as a messenger to the Kurus. There are the stories of Dambhodbhava, Matali’s search for a son-in-law, Galava’s obstinacy, Yayati and Vidula and her son. However, Krishna fails and war is inevitable.

Section Fifty-Five Karna-Upanivada Parva
This section has 357 shlokas and eleven chapters. Nivada is an invitation and upa has the connotation of secret. This section is in the nature of a secret invitation to Karna. Both Krishna and Kunti try to wean Karna away, but fail.

Section Fifty-Six Abhiniryana Parva
This section has 769 shlokas and four chapters. Abhiniryana means the act of marching out. The two sides march out to Kurukshetra.

Section Fifty-Seven Bhishma-Abhishechana Parva
This section has 722 shlokas and four chapters. Abhishechana means the act of consecration, typically with sprinkling of water. This section is so named because it is about Bhishma being consecrated as the commander-in-chief on the Kourava side.

Section Fifty-Eight Uluka-Yana Parva
This section has 707 shlokas and four chapters. Yana means moving or journey as a verb and conveyance as a noun. The parva is so named because Duryodhana sends Uluka as a messenger to the Pandavas.

Section Fifty-Nine Ratha-Atiratha-Samkhya Parva
This section has 237 shlokas and nine chapters. Tn increasing order of strength, rathas, maharathas and atirathas are charioteers. Samkhya means count or numbers and this section is so named because these charioteers and their strengths are enumerated.

