SECTION ONE
SECTION TWO
SECTION THREE
SECTION FOUR
SECTION FIVE
SECTION SIX

Section Sixty-One Jambukhanda-Vinirmana Parva
This parva has 378 shlokas and eleven chapters. Vinirmana means creation, as well as measuring out, the latter meaning being relevant here. Jambukhanda or Jambudvipa is one of the continents on earth. Tt is the central one. This section is about geography and is so named because it gives the measure of Jambukhanda.

Section Sixty-Two Bhumi Parva
This parva has eighty-seven shlokas and two chapters. Bhumi means land or the earth and this section is so named because it has a description of the earth.

Section Sixty-Three Bhagavad Gita Parva
This parva has 994 shlokas and twenty-seven chapters. This section is so named because it includes the Song Celestial or the Bhagavad Gita, the teachings of Krishna to Arjuna. The section begins with the dramatic news that Bhishma has been killed. When Sanjaya tells Dhritarashtra this, Dhritarashtra (and the reader) is astounded, wishing to know how this came to be. After a description of the arrangements for war, the rest of this section is the Bhagavad Gita.

Section Sixty-Four Bhishma Vadha Parva
This parva has 3947 shlokas and seventy-seven chapters. Vadha means the act of killing. This section is so named because it is about the killing of Bhishma. The first ten days of the battle have Bhishma as the commander-in-chief. This section thus describes the first ten days of the battle. On the first day, Virata’s son, Uttara, is killed. The second day has the Pandavas victorious, the highlight being Bhima’s destruction of the Kalingas. There is a ding-dong battle on the third day, with Bhishma triumphant initially (which is when Krishna decides to take up arms), followed by Arjuna’s victory. The Pandavas triumph on the fourth day and fourteen of Duryodhana’s brothers are killed by Bhima. While there is a lot of fighting on the fifth day, the highlight is Bhurishrava’s killing of ten of Satyaki’s sons. On balance, the Pandava side is more successful on the sixth day. While there is a great deal of fighting, there is nothing that merits a special mention on the seventh day. On the eighth day, Bhima kills eight of Duryodhana’s brothers. Travat, Arjuna’s son, kills several of Shakuni’s brothers and is himself killed by the rakshasa Alambusa. Bhima again kills nine of Duryodhana’s brothers. On the ninth day, the Pandavas eventually get the worst of it. Krishna decides to kill Bhishma and is restrained by Arjuna. The Pandavas consult Bhishma about how he may be killed and are advised to use Shikhandi. The tenth day is marked by Bhishma’s downfall.

Section Sixty-Five Dronabhisheka Parva
This parva has 634 shlokas and fifteen chapters. Abhishekha means instatement or consecration and the parva is named after Drona’s consecration as the supreme commander. After the consecration, this section also describes the eleventh day of the battle. Drona promises to capture Yudhishthira alive. Despite a lot of fighting, nothing of great significance occurs on the eleventh day, though Drona kills some Panchala warriors.

Section Sixty-Six Samshaptaka Vadha Parva
This parva has 777 shlokas and sixteen chapters. Samshaptakas are warriors who have taken an oath and these warriors (primarily the Trigartas) take an oath to die or kill Arjuna. This section is named after that oath. With Arjuna out of the way, the idea is that Drona will capture Yudhishthira. On the twelfth day of the battle, Arjuna kills several of the samshaptaka warriors. Drona kills many of the Panchalas, Matsyas and Kekayas. Bhima kills the king of Anga. Bhagadatta kills the king of Dasharna and Ruchiparva and unleashes the vaishnava weapon on Arjuna, which is countered by Krishna. Arjuna kills Bhagadatta. Arjuna kills Vrishaka and Achala, Shakuni’s brothers. Ashvatthama kills Nila of Mahishmati. Arjuna kills three of Karna’s brothers.

