SECTION ONE
SECTION TWO
SECTION THREE
SECTION FOUR
SECTION FIVE
SECTION SIX
SECTION SEVEN
SECTION EIGHT
SECTION NINE
SECTION TEN

Section Thirty-Four Jatasura-vadha Parva
This parva has sixty-one shlokas and one chapter. Vadha means to kill or slay and this section is about Bhima killing the demon named Jatasura.

Section Thirty-Five Yaksha-yuddha Parva
This parva has 727 shlokas and eighteen chapters. Yuddha means battle or fight and the section is named after a fight between Bhima and the yakshas. Tn this section, the Pandavas visit the sage Vrishaparva on Mount Gandhamadana and then travel to the hermitage of the sage Arshtishena, where they dwell, waiting for Arjuna’s return. Reminiscent of Section 33, Droupadi sends Bhima to search for celestial flowers. Bhima fights with yakshas and rakshasas and kills the rakshasa Maniman. The Pandavas meet Kubera and Tndra. Arjuna returns and recounts his adventures, repeating much of what has already been said in Sections 37 and 32 (Volume 7). These parts of Section 35 are not only repetitive, and sometimes inconsistent, they don’t quite seem to belong. The only new information is about Arjuna’s fight with the nivatakavacha demons and the demons who inhabited Hiranyapura.

Section Thirty-Six Ajagara Parva
This parva has 207 shlokas and six chapters. Ajagara means a boa constrictor, literally something that swallows a goat (aja). The Pandavas retrace their steps to Vrishaparva’s hermitage and Badari and then go to visit King Subahu. From there, they go to the origins of the Yamuna and Dvaitavana, on the banks of the Sarasvati. Bhima is then grasped by Nahusha in the form of a boa and this is why this section is called Ajagara Parva. The highlight of this section is a dialogue between Yudhishthira and Nahusha, in the form of a boa.

Section Thirty-Seven Markandeya Samasya Parva
This parva has 7694 shlokas and forty-three chapters. The Pandavas return to Kamyaka and are visited by Krishna and then by the sage Markandeya. The word samasya means the completion or filling up of that which is incomplete. This section is so named because of a long conversation between the Pandavas and Markandeya. Tt has the stories of Manu, the flood and the fish, details about the four yugas (eras) and different kinds of fires, the stories of Vamadeva, Tndradyumna, Dhundhumara, Koushika, Angiras and Skanda.

Section Thirty-Eight Droupadi-Satyabhama-sambada Parva
This parva has eighty-eight shlokas and three chapters. Sambada means conversation and this short parva has a conversation between Droupadi and Satyabhama. Krishna and Satyabhama return to Dvaravati.

Section Thirty-Nine Ghosha Yatra Parva
This parva has 579 shlokas and nineteen chapters. Ghosha means a herdsman, as well as a station where cowherds assemble. Yatra means an expedition or invasion. This parva is named after an expedition the Kouravas undertake to see the ghoshas in Dvaitavana, where the Pandavas are residing. The Kouravas are captured by the gandharvas and are released by the Pandavas. At this insult, Duryodhana resolves to fast to death and is dissuaded. He returns to Hastinapura and performs a sacrifice.

Section Forty-One Vrihi-Drounika Parva
This parva has 777 shlokas and three chapters. Vrihi means rice, or a grain of rice. Drouni or drona means a vessel, as well as a measure of capacity. Vyasa visits the Pandavas and tells them the story of Mudgala, who lived on a measure (drona) of rice (vrihi) and was generous enough to give it away. Mudgala was tested by the sage Durvasa and turned down an opportunity to go to heaven.

Section Forty-Two Droupadi Harana Parva
This parva has 7247 shlokas and thirty-six chapters. Harana means abduction and this parva is about Droupadi’s abduction by Jayadratha. Jayadratha abducts Droupadi. The Pandavas defeat Jayadratha and free Droupadi, shaving Jayadratha’s head in the process. Jayadratha obtains a boon from Shiva. This section then tells the story of the Ramayana and Savitri and Satyavan, where Savitri brings her husband, Satyavan, back from the land of the dead.

Section Forty-Three Kundala-aharana Parva
This parva has 294 shlokas and eleven chapters. Kundala is an earring and Karna was naturally born with kundalas. Aharana means seizing or taking. Pritha (Kunti) serves Durvasa and obtains a boon. Through this, she invokes Surya and Karna is born. When she abandons Karna, he is adopted and raised by a charioteer. Karna is born with natural armour and earrings that make him invincible. Tndra asks for these, and in return, gives Karna an invincible spear.

Section Forty-Four Araneya Parva
This parva has 797 shlokas and five chapters. Arani means wood used for kindling and this parva is named after that. Requested by a brahmana whose kindling has been lost, the Pandavas pursue a deer. Failing to answer a yaksha’s questions, Nakula, Sahadeva, Arjuna and Bhima are killed, but are restored to life when Yudhishthira answers the yaksha’s questions correctly.

